Insane Reality issue #6 - (c)opyright 1994 Immortal Riot                File 001

% Welcome back %

Whether you're a first time reader, or have followed our zines all from the
beginning, I would like to scream out Welcome back! This is our sixth issue, 
of what I hope, many many more. This one took quite a while to release, due to
general laziness from our side. However it's now here, about four odd months
after the release of IR5. 

% Changes %

The biggest differences with this issue compared to the earlier one's are 
probably the new look/design, the raised overall quality, and to whom this
magazine are aimed to. Let's start with the new look. Well, we didn't use the 
good old menu infterface, due to the butt-tight schedule's that seem to rule
our lives. Yepp, the time just didn't allow us to do so, hope you don't
mind this too much. Afterall it's the information published which count's, and 
not the way it's being presentated, or atleast should be. 

This is however seldom the way things are handled in real life. I mean, why 
are dorks using Windows even if it cripple's their *super* computer? For being 
more effective bcos all things are done much faster when working in a GUI? 
No way! During the time Windows loads the application program, the DOS user 
is finished with the work, showing it up to the manager. It's all really a
matter of how the work is being presentated! This is also why we might consider
collecting/doing some nice artwork until the next issue. If we care, have some
time left, etc, that is.

% Viruses %

However, what about the viruses released? Well, here we've definitly improved,
hence it'd be kinda weird otherwise. And with the definition _improved_ I
refer to how they're coded, and not to their 'design'. This also means that I
didn't use Word for Windows to write them in! Hehe. 

Well, being in this kinda business mainly for learning, self-education on 
interesting topics, and improving one's intellectual personality, I find it
the ultimate goal to keep the life long process called learning going strong. 
Other persons in this so called 'scene', has not recognized this. They (often 
also refered as lamers, and viruswriter wanna-be's.. ) are probably
only into this stuff for recognition, fame, and self-congratulation.

Some low-life's are into making money out of other's ideological work as well,
making them even worse than the lowest scum-bag out there. Ofcos, no names 
will be mentioned, as that would be evil, and we all wish for a happy world.
Those persons know exactly who they're anyhow, and since personal attacks
are not one my strongest sides, I won't go that low. 

Anyhow.. back to the stuff about those perverted little self replicating
piece of evil software, which we, suicidal virgins, malajustice dimwits,
hellbending teens are cranking out. Hmph? Oh well, just trying to be funny!
Myself has in this issue, included quite a great number of viruses and other
virus-related code. The viruses created by me in person might not be the most 
advanced viruses in existence, but they serve a good function for those who 
want to learn how viruses are written.

Since they're all also complete undetectable, (Zero flags by Tbscan 6.26 is a 
fact when it comes to all my creations!) you might find them good when you're 
planning to screw around with your local enemies, your university/school, or 
even with your your ex-employee. Just keep in mind that I, the father of them, 
cannot be held responsible for any illegal abuse your destructive brain might 
find them useful for.

What's more? Well, since I'm not the only guy in Immortal Riot, there's
ofcos other IR viruses included as well. Let's start with the person
hiding himself behind the handle, Metal Militia or MMIR as he often refers
himself as. This fancy way-k0ol "handle" is by the way invented by some AV'ers,
which might tell you a bit of MMIR's intellect.

Metal, as we all know being in general a lazy ass, has for this issue 
only create one single virus. It's in the magazine somewhere, go find it
yourself. Ohh, no hard feelings Metal, you definetly deserve this shit! :)

Then we've this guy called Raver. Well, he's quite a busy person, and has
really no time left for computers, still he managed to release a new virus.
For this, he should be saluted! Anyhow, the virus is awesome, and I hope you
find it useful. Feel free to help us with the spreading of it.

B-Real, still hasn't written a virus yet, but since he no longer is a member
of Immortal Riot (he left himself..), I don't really care. This person, 
is still however (and always will be..) considered a very good friend. What
can I say? Maybe all his demo programming took every piece of creative
ideas away from him, so, in the bitter end there was no space left for virus 
development? Hehe. Naw, dude.. I understand ya.. 

% Contribution viruses %

In this issue, just like in some earlier one's, we also publish other works.
The virus spotlight (Yep, ripped that idea from the Skism dudes, heh.) is
Scitzo. A quite interesting virus, which has replicated quite well here in 
Sweden. This is the only virus that we've decided to include without the 
permission from the author. And since Red A isn't his "real" handle, this is
really quite an impossible task. Well, we have _ideas_ who this person is,
but no proofs.

But there's also other non-IR viruses published as well. For instance we
got in contact with a truely amazing guy, known as Conzouler. This person has
contributed a few really interesting, virus oriented stuff (including one of
his virus source codes..), that I hope you find interesting. 

Then, we contacted one of my all favourite programmer, known as Macaroni Ted.
He managed to finish yet another cool virus, known as Soldier Bob. A really 
interesting piece of code, with really a good chanse to survive in the wild. 
It also contain an original payload which makes the virus a bit more fun. So..
what can I say? Anoi is alive, and I'm glad to be the person first to release 
it..

You see, this issue contains _only_ swedish viruses.. IR viruses, anoi
viruses, independently written viruses, etc. you name it! So.. we once again 
Sweden kicks arse. I mean, afterall, Sweden's population is _less_ than in one
big city in the US (like LA..), and consider we've had atleast five virus-
writing groups, a shitload of truely advanced viruses, and two viruses that 
shook the world, coming from here! Seems like the swedish psychopaths has done
quite well in order do create chaos and disorder :).

% Hex-scripts %

Due to some minor complaints from people who don't know how to assemble the
code included (dorks for short..) we decided to include some hex-script's
as well. To make the hex-dumps into a com file, simple type "debug <filename"
and the virus will be written into a com-file.

% Anti-Virus %

We've in this issue also included a few small anti-virus programs done by 
Swedish AV'ers wanna-be's, urm well, since the difference between viruswriting
and AV-development, (hence it's both asm-programmaing, right?) you might find 
them useful.

Also, we've had quite a hard time on r20_virus (the Swedish variant of
fido-net's virus discussion..) from lamers with absolutely _no_ knowledge
about viruses, etc. For example, they complained that we were lying. I.e
they told us that our statements concerning writing undetectable viruses 
was nothing but pure bogus. Huh? Is that true? -- Well, if one are a complete 
fool, and only dare to scan the first generation (the unencrypted virus-
dropper that is..) of the virus, it's ofcos a fact that scanners with
heuristic features will catch 'em. In the encrypted form of them (that is
after it has replicated in other files.. ), they were however _not_ detectable.
In other words, we didn't lie, bcos we _never_ spread them in original form,
like for instance Tormentor of ex-Demoralized Youth did.

% Favourite target's %

A big hug goes to Black Shadow/FTL, for being the only person in the
universe that managed to spread Bad Attitude (a runtime virus by me published
in IR5..), to three of his computers. Ha-ha, kinda funny, consider that he was
really up to close FTL's EuroHQ :-). We also nominate the CoSysop of 7:th 
Heaven (Black Shadow's board that is..) Rebound for being the lamer since IR5.
This guy is truely amazing when it comes to being stupid.

% Life, the Universe, and Insane Reality %

Well, the changes in my real life, has been pretty drastical since the
release of IR5. All in all, _everything_ has changed! To the better or to
the worse, I cannot really tell you, bcos it's way too early to have a good 
picture of what's really going on.. I think the quotation "Life, will never
be the same.." written by a very rotten artist, might tell you a bit however.

Life is, has always, and probably always will, change. We're getting older,
and naturally enough, the interests, priority of time, believes, etc. changes
with it. It's a natural process, which even if you try, cannot stop. No, don't
get me wrong! I'm not saying that my interest in computers are/or will be, 
equal to null, I'm only trying to say that my time will be rearranged. Why 
you might ask? Well, actually, it's bcos I don't fit all things that _should_
be done in a 24 hours long day! Simple as that. I mean, just bcos I am a scene-
guy, I don't want my social life, neither my school results, wiped out. And
since school's getting harder and harder for each day that passes by, 
there's no simple solution to this. Sparing time not by sleeping is not the 
way to go (I've tried..), neither is skipping school, nor stop seeing
real-world friends/girls. 

Well, so how will this effect my scene duties? -- It won't. The time in
front of the computer will just be more effective. No more 'doing shits.. '
kinda things. So why am I then typing up such nonsense? Actually, I dunno,
maybe bcos I think one shouldn't mix the scene and life, which I in too many 
cases, have seen people doing. This is not any good, it's fucking stupid, and 
I guess you're considering yourself smart, right? Well, think again! How many 
hours a week do _you_ spend in front of the computer? Probably way too many.

Also, imagine you got about $10 for each hour you have spent (i.e. loosing
money..) in front of the computer, doing job's for your group, or to other
scene guys, just for the fun outta it? Well, maybe a few of us would be
richer than Mcafee himself? Hehe. 

I know, the scene is fascinating. The things what're doing, how close one can 
be with other friends, with one never has, and probably never will, meet, etc.
but hell, sometimes, it's loosing it's propositions and that's all I'm saying. 
If your real life is being damaged by what you're doing, decrease the time in
front of the computer! I'm pretty sure you'll get just as much, or even more 
done anyhow!

% Aim's and politics %

Immortal Riot and it's members are not out to change the world. Those dreams
(which only reflected my very own opinion's and not the rest of IRs members..)
are way too dangerous to make come true. Hence, have you ever figured how many
people who have had their lifes screwed bcos of their opinions? A revolution, 
claimed in both the introduction to IR4 and IR5 are, ofcos overdoing it. Well,
writing those articles when my head, basicly was fucked up by various things, 
resulted in me getting way too bad attitude towards everything and anybody 
involved in both politics, and other authorities as well. Ok. They're still 
bad, but not bad enough that I take action against them. You see, if you fight 
them, you'll loose. So what do you do about it? -- It's simple, you don't. 

You can have your dreams, and it's okey for everyone to dream whatever you 
want to dream, under the cirumstances that you stick 'em to yourself. As
soon as you're trying to make them come true (i.e. in most cases involving 
other persons..), it's probably (in the eyes of the society, not mine) not
okay anymore. Not if your dreams are too radical anyhow. So, whether your 
dreams are "peace on earth - end to war" or "stop the censoring - release 
every bit of information known to man", they'll only be just that, dreams. The 
answer to why radical dreams remains dreams are simple. (Let's take the above 
named examples..)

Government's like power, and power are gained by war. In war, the 
government does quite a few awful things, which they ofcos not want to be
known to all the citizens who elected them. So what do they do? Ofcos, they
censor it. Not too hard to understand, is it? So, their duty, is to stop
your dreams, making _their_ dream come true. That is to stop you from dreaming,
and by that, erasing your personal thoughts, and rights.

Talking about personal rights.. how about the privacy in today's society?
Since information of any kind are stored, copied, and even sold everwhere, 
our privacy and naturally enough also our personal rights are fading away.
Information about persons are kept private. Private in the government's
point of view anyhow. Not even you can access what they know about you. 
And if you do, you're putted behind bars. Kinda scary, isnt it? And since all
information can become immortal, you never know whether something is true or
false.

I have one quotation concerning this, that I found in the book "Computer
Currents - Navigating Tommorow's Technology" (by George Beekman, a great book,
giving you a brief description of what IT is all about - highly recommended..)

"If all records told the same tale, then the lie passed into history and 
became truth. " - George Orwell, 1984

So.. there is a great dilemma concerning this. That is the balance between
what information which should be available by everyone, who should access
private files, and what kinda information which should be allowed to store.

In my opinion, censoring should be forbidden (even though I dislike laws,
this is one law that I find okay.. ), and information that should not be 
known, should never be stored. Keeping records on personal files, without
the permission of the induvidual in question, should ofcos, be outlawed.
However, since _only_ the government is allowed to keep personal records,
there's no law against it. Afterall, the government create's the laws.. "By
the request's of the people". Bah!

This lead's us to another interesting question: Hacker's screaming
"information should be free and total!". Is it their business for example 
if I screw with my sister or not? This could in reality be stored in her
diary (ok, I'm not screwing her in case you wondered.. ), or in her personal
relation database (rdb) Ofcos, that kinda private information should _not_ be 
accessable to the major public. So, next time a hacker, or a hacker-wanna-be 
is using that phrase, I hope he'll add "with the exclusion of private files..".

What's more? Yeh, kinda funny by the way, that everyone talks about the
information superhighway's, (or infobahn as some nazi-reporters refers it
as.. ), and specially loudmouthed is the US-government. Hence they (Al
Core, - the vice president, right?) even introduced that catchy term. 
Information superhighway's sure as hell gives the impression that information 
should be fast and unlimited. Still the US-government is the one censoring 
more than any other government, or person. Oh, I revealed a US-governmental 
top secret information, which they tried to censor? Shit, now I got NWO 
(New Word Order - Thanks is due to a _very good_ #virus dude who probably 
want's to remain anonymous for informing me about their activities..), after 
me. Oh well.

Anyhow, enough Politic's. What's Immortal Riot's aims and goals? I guess
that's cranking out viruses and magazine's, until we've nothing more to say. 
Keep learning, keep experimenting, and keep coding. We've been doing the same
thing for quite a while, and we still get a sorta thrill outta it. It's
pretty fun really. Having one's opinions, works, thoughts released in a 
magazine, found everywhere.                         
                                                    
To add, is that Immortal Riot is _not_ a group that stand's for total 
destruction of all data, even though some of our viruses might given you that 
impression. Some viruses should be (in general meanings..) destructive, 
otherwise, noone would really care about 'em. We use different viruses 
for different purposes, which allows us to code them different. However, we
print 'em all, undestructive/destructive, no matter what in this magazine, to
make it a bit larger. I.e. quality in quantity. 

% Credits %

 -  The inner circle:

The Unforgiven    - Virus writer, editor, organizer.
Metal Militia     - Virus writer
Raver             - Virus writer

 -  Supporters:

Conzouler         - Virus writer
Macaroni Ted      - Virus writer

 -  HQ Sysop:

The Wizard        - Sysop, sometimes.

% Greetings %

    Personal:	   (no order whatsover.. chaos rules!)

Priest           - Thank's for all inspiration and information, dude!
Zerial           - Feeling satisfied now - contributing with _no_ code! :)
Qark             - You're truely amazing fella, keep 'em coming!
Metabolis        - Thanks for having different opinion than me! hehe. 
Darkman          - Screw Meta, censoring your destructive code ;)
Automag          - France, okay, you're cool, still I hate the EU! :)
Pottie Rottie    - Hiya dude! So, virus writing is much like punk, right?
Omega            - I fucking hate your text ads, modifying our (new) magazine!
Falcon           - Will have to send you that beer I promised ya!
Scavenger        - You gotta score that twin before the release of this mag!
The Sarge        - Hope you have solved that infection by now..
Holy Beast       - Nice work will all cleaners..
GHeap            - Hope you like this new (improved?) interface, pal!
Stormbringer     - No way there is such a thing as a good virus!
Screaming Radish - Sorry for buying Aristotle's stories, and everything.. 
Rock Steady      - Ok. I hate electronic's, still love your IJs!
Azreal           - Yeh, I also lurve destructive code, so? :)
Crom-Cruanch     - Keep on working with the hitchhiker's guide!
Napoleon         - You didn't e-mail me? Please do so... 
K12              - Sorry for not finish that write-up in your magazine.. 
Red A            - Virus-spotlight in Insane Reality - the way to go, right?
Evil Avatar      - So, we disagree on some topics? Ain't that lovely?
Mr.Disaster      - Thanks for abusing r20_virus for us!
Frans Veldman    - Fooled ya in all my releases, looser!
Frisk            - Keep up the good work, mate!
Hermanni         - Well, I'm not really a full-time asshole anyhow! :). Hehe.
Peter Carlsson   - So, this is the reason for me being confused, right?
Mikael Larsson   - So, you can't turn us down legally, hahaha!
Mom/Dad          - You were quite alright afterall, I've relalized now, heh.
You              - Again, without the readers, no magazine, hurray for ya!

    Virus groups:

Vlad             - Continue being on IRC all the time..
TridenT          - Get back on the scene again guys!
Phalcon/Skism    - Has this year been legendary for you?
NuKE		 - Release the info-journal's a bit more often!
Trinity          - You guys released revelation issue #2 yet?

% Where to obtain earlier issues %

I hope you can find our earlier mag's (IR#1 - IR#5) on one of the below 
listed bulletin boardsystems, if you cannot connect to those boards, get 
on IRC #virus and ask someone. I'm sure there is a way you can find them.. 
If you're a thrustworthy person in the virus-community, you probably have 
my e-mail adress written down somewhere. Write me a message, and I'll send 
'em to you!

Bbs-name:		Number:	       Bbs-name:               Number: 

Wizard's Lair           +46-VW-ONLY!   Dungeon System Inc.     410-263-2258    
W.C.I.V.R Node 1        714-772-7039   W.C.I.V.R Node 2        714-533-9615   
City Of Illusion        818-447-2667   Paradise Lost           216-464-7763   
Logikal Nonsense        717-846-0014   Arrested Development    +31-77547477   
Destiny Stone ][ Node 1 +61-92462553   Destiny Stone ][ Node 2 +61-92463491  
Hack'n Hard             +47-77073118   Satanic Brain           +541-3837480

% Disclaimer %

Immortal Riot's members or supporters are not responsible for anything 
published in this issue. We cannot be held responsible for any destructive 
use of any material published.

% Closing words %

If you're pissed about some material published in this magazine, go to
hell! I pissed you off? Great! Bcos then you're most likely one of those 
dweebs that think censoring is the only solution to get your opinion, dreams, 
etc. come true. Wake up, this is the information age, information should be
free and total! (with the exception of personal records.. :))

You ever thought about that the lack of communication is the major reason
to we're having such an insane reality today? People doesn't respect eachother,
bcos they havn't talked.. It's just like the issue concerning racism, damnit!
Oh, so you're a facist as well? Well, we're out here to stop people like you,
and there's not a damn thing you can do about it, pig! Law's will not stop
us, since we don't respect laws, which are created by narrow-minded people just 
like you! So, please, complain - then I'll know who you're and can take action
against you! I'm reachable on IRC.. get in touch!

If you think all material published is okay, you're nuts! Heh. :)

             -                          __ The Unforgiven __
