   Editorial

   Intro

   Dear reader, please allow me to introduce the first (and i hope
   not the last at the same time) issue of our zine. I hope, everyone 'll
   find in this isssue at least two or three articles, which 'll be for
   him of some value.

   We would like to focus our mag not only on virii, but also on
   the rest of the H/P/A/V. Ofcourse, we don't want to present only own
   stuff, every piece of your activity, dear reader, 'll be great. If you
   're author of the ultimate, kick-the-ass virus or utility, or just want
   to tell your latest experiences or opinions to the rest of comunnity,
   contact us ! We would like to make your stuff public.

   Remember, not everyone is virus&asm guru, so we 'll bring some
   stuff, which for some of you dudes, could be trivial or lame. But for
   someone it could be good example or ever the inspiration for own start
   as vx coder.

   Last but not the least, we 'll try to bring some interesting
   background stories and infos, some virus history related articles and
   more ...

   Why Asterix

   Why this zine is named '*'? Well, we got several explanations.
   Just choose your favourite one.

   '*' in computer terms stands for wildcard - the sign that
   covers everything.
   '*', which ascii code is 42, was a international code for
   Slovakia, the origin of editors of this zine. However, nowadays we got
   a new dial-code 421 :(
   '*', the number of 42, is the answer to ultimate question
   of life, universe and everything.

   Credits

   Greetz

   Diz little section is very important. If we forget to include
   you name, don't worry about it. We apologise for such a ommision, but
   on the other hand, who cares?

   Personal greetings
   Virus section

   Sep-IRG - if we meet personally, we 'll land in next pub
   TuIRG - thanx for your great contribution
   QuantumG - your Unix page is gr8t
   Ww0rker - how do you feel as fresh married ? :-P
   Mr.Sandman - 29A - isn't it MiG some fighter ?
   l- - can i get some nukes ? And how was the stay on Hawai ?
   Dark Avenger - long live the legend !
   lovinGOD - it's really hard to meet you on #virus
   Dark Angel - was nice to meet you
   yurik - nu, neudalos, poprobuem esco odin razik
   Tornado - are you alive ?
   avd - TMC is really kick the ass virus
   Ender - awainting for your next virus
   Online - yu'v kewl style of coding
   Nasty Lamer & Ugly Luser - you kicked the fwin's ass :))))
   _COKe_ - keep da VLAD alive !!! Und zum Wohl !
   Vyvojar - how did you find us ???

                                                           [smileface.gif]
   Blesk - sorry for the viewer. But thiz1 is1ly real the best from all
   'round the world

                                                           [smileface.gif]
   kdkd - 777 !

                                                           [smileface.gif]
   qark - thanx for sending me VLAD in the past

                                                           [smileface.gif]
   rebyc - hope my mail 'll reach yer mbox. And be ready for the anti M$
   stuff
