From s0041baj@sun10.vsz.bme.hu
Date: Fri, 23 Feb 96 18:53:35 +0100
From: Baji Gal Janos <s0041baj@sun10.vsz.bme.hu>
To: rar@fh-albsig.de
Subject: Has Hackstop been cracked yet?

HI!

Just as the subject line says, I'm wondering about your exe/com
protector's success. In any documents I've read you stated that it hasn't
been hacked/cracked yet. Well, I took the time to trace through it and
yes, I could do it. If you are interested I can send you the unprotected
virus cleaners I found in decom115.rar. I didn't do this to harass you but
was simply "gespannt" about your claims. If you would like to discuss
anything about it feel free to write to me!

bye,  Janos

PS> I used softice v2.80. What? You've got anti-softice routines? Well,
do you really think that they work? Have you ever tried them out?

OK, here comes the solution: I modified/patched softice so that the magic
numbers it is looking for on an int3 call in SI/DI were changed (ldr.exe
must also have had to be changed). So EVERY anti-softice protection
based on the int3 interface will fail! Now you may ask what the new
magic numbers are, but it wouldn't help you too much since they can be
altered in a few seconds using a binary search-and-replace utility.

> Did you hack HS 1.12?

i guess you mean the protection itself and not the program that puts it in
exe files (since i discussed it in the previous paragraph).

well, in a certain sense. back in 1995, i ran into wwpack 3.02, which was
protected with hackstop v1.0?. at that time i only had a real mode
debugger called Mark's Multidebugger v1.00 (so far the best of its kind).
Since i was very new to cracking/hacking it took me a few days until i
could trace through it. and to my surprise, i found out that the
protected exe was not even encrypted! so all i had to was to set cs:ip
and ss:sp in the exe header and your protection was switched off.

the reason for that i told you this story is that this version was the
last one i traced through entirely. nowadays i use soft-ice v2.80. in
order to hack HS.EXE all i had to do was to load the protected exe into
soft-ice, set a hardware breakpoint at ds:101 (i know from experience
that you use wwpack v3.04 with PU) and let it run. unpacking and removing
the next encryption layer is a work of just a few minutes.

BTW, every hackstop protected file i ran across so far was wwpack-ed and
thus could be hacked the same way.

i guess you wonder now, how i could use soft-ice without troubles, since
your protection includes anti-soft-ice tricks. if you've got my email i
sent to you a few weeks ago, you know the answer. if not, here's a short
explanation: since your (and everyone else's) anti-soft-ice tricks use
the INT3 interface provided by soft-ice, all i had to do was to change
the magic numbers it expects at the entrance of the protected mode INT3
handler. and since both soft-ice and ldr.exe use this interface, at every
internal use of INT3 i had to change the magic values as well. since
there are 35 (S-ICE.EXE) and 60 (LDR.EXE) changes to be done, i wrote a
small script and had it done by MSUB.EXE (which is a search&replace utility).
and if you wondered, what the new magic values are, i tell you that it
wouldn't help you too much, since i can change them in a few seconds to
whatever i want (2^16*2^16=2^32 possible values).

summary: whatever new ideas you'll come up with, if you stuck with this
INT3 tricks, i will be able to hack the new protection as well. however
(and to show my positive attitude towards the protection writer community
8-) i'll tell you that there's a way to stop (but not break) soft-ice:
i run across this when i wanted to deprotect Guardian Angel v1.0.
this scheme uses the debug registers (and can run on 386 and above, but
that's not a big problem nowadays; and there's really no unbreakable
protection under 286) to start the decoding routines. and soft-ice simply
stops every time when such a breakpoint is reached (and that means a lot
of time for the hacker 8-). of course, this protection can be hacked as well,
it only makes it last a bit longer.

i hope i could help,

     Janos
