Hello Kernel32

Tell us something about you ?

i'm 19 years old, live in south africa and i like to party
alot.


How did you choosed your name ?

My mother signed up for a internet account and she did'nt know
what could be a suitable one, so i gave the name 'Kernel32' and
stuck with it ever since.


When did you entered the computer's world ?

In 1998 when i got my first computer - which was a super fast 286 (hehe). Anyway
i moved to Pentium I in 2000 and moved to P4 in 2004.


When did you entered the vx world ?

I hope you r not expecting "i got infeced by..." story. 
From my days of computing i was always interested to make my first program.
So i got QBasic from a friend. I heard about viruses, but never was 
realy interested in them until one day my friend brought me a VCK.
I asked him where i got it and he told me it was on some site (can't remeber).
and so my vx career stared.

In what language do you code in ?

mIRC script, Batch, Pascal, Delphi, VB, VBS, JS and a little ASM, bat and trying IBasic now

What programming language do you like using most ?

Visual Basic

Have you written any viruses ? if so which would you like to take credit for ?

Take credit for viruses. Hmm lets see, ive coded:

irc.kernel.a 		-	First mIRC worm script which code is encrypted
irc.Polyseed.a		-	First Semi-Polymorphic mIRC worm
w97m.Canister		-	Advanced Polymorphic Document virus that use 
				the Callbyname Technique to infect files
w97m.Xtrax.c		-	A Super Polymorphic Document virus that
				also uses the Callbyname Technique, but
				with other Polymorphic Techniques.
				
i've coded other but they're not wothy.


How much viruses have you coded ?, give us names as well ?

I dunno, more than 30 i think

W97m.Vlam / W97m.Heavyduty / W97m.Kaffer / W97m.Riophosis / Win32.Menthol.worm
Win32.Tarit.worm / Win32.Fokken.worm / Win32.Celebite.Worm / Irc.Kernel.a /
W97m.Canister / W97m.Xtrax / Vbs.Hotbutter / Win32.Daneil.worm / Win32.Carmen.worm

and many more, but can't remeber them all right now.

Are/were you a member of any vx group ?

I was a member of Brigata Ocho but things did'nt work
out as planned, coz i lost internet connnection. Now i'am a member
of DCA (Hey ya)

Which viruses/coders/groups/zines do you like most ?

Zines: 
	rRlf 
	Matrix 
	29a 
	linezero 
	Metaphase 
	Brigata Ocho and some more

Viruses: 
	None realy

Groups: 
	DCA - for helping me in evey situation where i have problems (remember KEYS)

Coders:
	Jackie 	   - for all those articals on Macro specialy (a phreaky Macro Primer).
	Lys Kovick - for those virii that he coded, i've learned alot from him too.
	SPTH	   - for inventing Batch Encryption.
	Sinclaire  - for helping me with Public Keys and for being so inviting.
	Falckon	   - for Mapson.c

Which individual or what group do you like/respect outside the VX world ? 

My Buddy 'Gibber' for being a supreme bussiness man in getting things done, 
and for helping me up when i'm down.


What is your view on destructive payloads in viruses? 

Destructive Payloads, hmm 
They are good and Bad, i think when u want to code a good spreading virus, then
destructive payloads r bad, coz they complexify the situation, although 
it is good when u want to send a message.


Do you think there is such a thing as a 'good' virus? (Describe the perfect virus.) 

Perfect virus? Yes it is possible, but i't will have to have the following aspects.

* Metamorphic 
* Should be uncrackable by debuggers
* Slow morphing
* Encrypted
* undetectable by the User and AV in every way
* various spreading techniques
* Able to update itself with other viruses (geneticism)
* bug free

I think the only way to code such a virus is, if all the vxers come together
(like a corporation) and code good code. its like coding a open source program.


What is your view on the continuous 'war' between VX and AV. 

As the Situation looks now, AV will always be on the winning side,
unless something new comes out VX will always lose the battle
coz the FBI is also after our asses.


Have you ever confirmed one of your viruses 'in-the-wild'? 

no

Besides writing viruses, do u have another hobby? 

Playing Games, Partying, hanging out, Djing and getting the
latest movies, apps and such things.

Do people outside the VX scene know what you do (parents, girlfriend etc.)?

Yes my parents, some of my friends, but they don't realy care. Although
my mother dislikes the idea.


Should viruses be illegal? Is there a difference between creation and spreading? 

No. 
Creation should be legal in all countries, but i think spreading should be 
illegal coz, what if your virus does something destructive to a 
Hospital, bank - places that involves u? Then u would kick urself for 
that thing.


What is your advice for people just starting out? 

Some Vxers are facists, don't worry about them, they like to pick on newbies, but 
not all of them are like that. Ask questions, download tutorials, etc
but learn to code first before asking such kak in #virus. Vxers don't have this much
patience to learn u how to code to.


Where can you be reached if at all? 

Vlam_vlam_vlam@hotmail.com
#DCA / #virus / #vxers / #vir / #vx on irc.undernet.org

thank you Kernel32 for this interview
