				Respect
                                   by
                                  Duke

	It's seems lately that school has started to become a bore.
I have started to notice as I flip through my note books that I'm
starting to write virus source codes and just a lot of different other
things in computer language.  I catch myself day dreaming in the middle 
of class thinking about being home on my computer. But were I have the
most trouble with everything I know is keyboarding. I sit there looking
at my screen.  Everyone else is still typing away with the lesson that 
should take them 50 minutes that took me 10.  I sit there with this 
burning inside me to see what I can do.  I open a system monitor and
see that our network is running extremely LOW.  My teacher sneaks up
behind me.  "What are you doing?", "OH, um just looking at how the
network is running with a system monitor." "A what?" "Nevermind" 
"Please get out something more constructive if you are finished" 
"ok, sorry" "And I don't want to catch you out of the word pad screen 
again, messing with something you don't know how to use."  I give her a
blank look.  But the following days I find myself again testing things
on the server.  Seeing what I can get past and what I can't.  Well 
about a week later I come home from football practice.  My mom is 
standing at the door and says "What is this?" I grab a note from her.  
It's a note from school.  My teacher had a technician come to school, 
and look at all the computers.  She was complaining that I was opening 
programs that shouldn't be opened and being in places that I shouldn't 
be.  In the note it said that if I didn't stop that she would fail me
and have me removed from the class.  I am PISSED.  My mom says, 
"I don't know what you have been doing on the Internet, but if it's 
going to get you in trouble at school I will have to take it away."
The next day at school she starts class with a cocky attitude almost 
with a smirk on her face.  HEHE but lets she if she has the same smirk
tomorrow morning.  After school I enter the computer lab.  I walk back 
into the backroom.  My teacher enters the lab turns off the lights and 
leaves.  My heart is pounding like crazy now.  If I get caught it's
over......The next day the computers are turned on.  Laughter.  It 
seems "someone" has loaded a Budweiser screen saver on everyone's
computer.  HEHE.  Server errors. Computer freezes.  The kids are
confused.  "Mrs.------- there's something wrong with my computer."  
Well Mr. Computer Technician is back fixing all the computers.  He fixed
the computers and gave the school a $1200 dollar bill.  My bad.  Didn't 
mean for that to happen.  I didn't get in trouble.  No one ever talked
to me.  My teacher knows it was me.  But she doesn't dare bother me.  
She knows that with a few pushes of a button I can make her look like a little 
fool again.  She probably goes home everyday and says, "Damn hackers,
they know more than me."  She is threatened by me.  The last few days
though she has called on me to fix server problems, Windows, and all of
kinds of crappy problems.  She doesn't start class with a cocky
attitude anymore, and she never asks me what I am doing.  She respects
my knowledge. This is one of the rewards of my computer knowledge.......
