Insane Reality issue #7 - (c)opyright 1995 Immortal Riot               File 003 


% Viral-morality %

------------------

This article is suppose to be covering the topic "viral-morality". 
Viral-morality you may say with a big "hmmmmm" afterwards? Well, 
it's not exactly about if it's moral or not to write viruses, if 
it's unethical to distrubute virus-source code or anything like 
that. Or maybe it is? Hehe, It's though another write-up which ncludes 
quite a great deal of interesting questions and covers a few cool topics. 


It was written by a guy calling himself Rob Slade. What I

figured he's some sort of teacher/AV-person all mixed together 
who don't know where he belongs. But honestly, I haven't bothered 
doing any kind of research about this person, except that he seems 
to have written a book called "Robert Slade's Guide to Computer Viruses", 
but greets to him, whoever he might be.



Comments, complaints and all that are ofcourse added by me in good 
old IR tradition. Even though some of the stuff added has nothing 
to do with his text I didn't care to remove it. Deal with it or 
go fuck your boyfriend in his ass, suck his dick and wake up the 
next morning with pubic hair between your teeth and dry cum in your 
right nostril.



- The Unforgiven.



RS> Rob Slade

TU> The Unforgiven



------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


From "Rob Slade, Social Convener to the Net"  ()

Newsgroups: comp.virus

Subject: Viral morality

Date: 21 Mar 1995 21:52:48 -0000



------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


VIRETHIC



Viral Morality: A Call for Discussion



RS>



"Computer ethics" has been an ongoing study in the technical world. On the one 
hand is the study of the ethical, moral, or proper use of computers. On the 
other, is the study of computer crime and vandalism. Lately, I have noted a 
rather desperate interest in courses or training in computer ethics, as well as 
an increase in the frequency and depth of discussions regarding the ethics of 
virus writing. I would like to address this latter topic, specifically. 


TU>



It's fine to discuss moral with me since the definition of the word 'moral' is 
very vague indeed. Therefor, the first thing to discuss is by who's definition 
we are defining it. To fatten up this meaningless ramble I looked this stuff 
up in a very old english word-book.



Moral = "concerning principles of right and wrong".



We've also good words such as "moralist", which I'm sure Rob himself would 
have refered himself as :).



"Person who points out morals and who practises or teaches morality". 
(See also: Weenie). Jokes aside. We still haven't got by who's definition 
we're discussing this issue about. Right and wrong from the law, by God, 
or in the mind of the average braindead Joe Blow?



First lets start with the law. If we only had to define moral such as 
"If it's forbidden by the law, it's unmoral to do it" we wouldn't 
have anything to talk about because viruswriting isn't considered 
a crime in most countries. So luckily, morality cannot be definied all that 
easy.



To put things straight I do not think everything forbidden by the law is 
alright to do because it's (you guessed it) legal. I don't find it morally 
right if I ditch a girl one minute after I fucked her the very first time, 
took her virginity, crushed her heart and left her life a in misery. Still 
it wouldn't be a crime and hell yea, I've been there. People do by their own 
definition of morality unmoral things. The example above might perhaps be a 
case of sense-moral, but that's not the topic for this article. But my point 
here is that even if all viruswriters find it morally wrong to write viruses, 
it still wouldn't solve the so-called virus problems. Face it, people feel 
different every day and one day when you're really pissed about something 
you screw morality. Big deal? So the problems might have decreased an inch 
or two if we all thought it was unmoral but that's pretty much about it. 


This kinda leads us to another question - would the viruswriting decrease 
if it all sudden got forbidden by the law? Hmm, I believe I wrote about 
this very issue in IR#5 and my opinion is that forbidding viruswriting 
would result in an outbreak of viruses done as an objection against 
the law. This would increase the infections rather than decreasing it. 
A whole bunch of people believing in freedom of speech would probably start 
writing computer viruses. Wow. That would be quite cool. Uh. But we ain't 
talking laws here, but morality, so let's go on.



Then how about following Gods' message of what's right and what's wrong? 
Which God? Jesus, Allah or Satan? This is a topic I really would like to 
discuss for hours, but that would maybe upset some religious dweebs out 
there. If you feel like you belong of one of those idiots believing in the 
bible I just have to ask you "How can a non-existing thing define a word used 
by human beings?". Hmmm. Well - it's alright to believe whatever you want 
and even follow the so-called word of God but the fact still remain that 
religion is abused. Therefor people calling themself the messenger of God 
cannot be trusted when they're teaching you certain standards of what's 
right or wrong because like all other person they're greedy and will 
use your belief against you to make their own lifes better. 


Talking about greed by the way. I stated in the "Deep corner's discussion 
about all between heaven and hell" (a non-virus related article that I 
typed up confused as you can expect from a mid-teenager), that: 
"Greed is really your WORST enemy." Maybe I still think so and 
I might still dream and have faith in something better and maybe I'm just 
as confused or just don't know what to think.



If I was confused by the way, I might just ask you what I ment with the 
text from a very lame virus I wrote called Human-Greed saying 
"Do you believe" and "Life is limited, love is forever...", but since 
I'm not confused, I rather not :-). And to continue screwing and messing 
things altogheter I decided to include these indeed very interesting 
words.



"Image there's no heaven. It's easy if you try. No hell below us. 
Above us only sky. Imagine all the people, living for today.. 
Imagine there's no countries. It isn't hard to do. Nothing to kill or die 
for, and no religion too. Imagine all the people, living life in peace... 
Imagine no possessions, I wonder if you can. No need for hunger, a 
brotherhood of man. Imagine all the people, sharing all the world..." 


Hmm, now exactly how can I relate that text to this article? Maybe I 
can't and honestly I won't care if I don't succes either.

However, one thing is clear and if you don't know what that is I'm 
not going to tell you either, go figure... :-).



So, we screw religion as well since that wouldn't give us any definition 
whatsoever. How about the society?



In most people's mind, viruswriting is considered evil. Gee, I wonder 
why that would be? Maybe because the anti-virus crowd are talking shit about 
us scaring people away from viruses? Or maybe because people like us 
write destructive viruses with the intention to infect as many computers 
as fast as possible and to destroy important data? Or maybe because 
people who don't know shit about computers are forced to use them on daily 
basis and blames their failure on viruses? Ofcourse we know there is a lot 
of reason why the word computer-viruses sounds evil to most people and the 
above listed examples is only a few of them.



So - if we wan't to change the general attitude about viruses, we just 
don't have to make the viruses useful and easy-to-use, we also have to control 
the media. That is ofcourse impossible since all viruswriters like freedom 
fighters have to be anonymous and therefor cannot stand up against the 
media and such scums without being a victim.



The above expressed opinions should not be seen as an attack against groups 
like VLAD and Phalcon/Skism in their attempts to write harmless and non- 
destructive-viruses with harmless payloads. They're free to try, but will 
hardly succeed. No hard feelings guys, we just (again) share different 
opinions :).



MM> "Fuck You TU, you're just been to damn political correct nowadays!" 


- "With all due respect dear MM, we represent a new age of computer 
   terrorism and therefor we don't only have to respect other opinions, 
   but we must also cooperate with the believers' of them. That way, 
   you can call us politicans, too."



So for short the definition morality does really vary depending 
on with who you're discussing the subject with.  It's an just an opinion 
and it's lovely when people have different opinions and beliefs. 


Therefor - when I talk about morality and use that word lateron in 
this article I will refer to my own standard of morality.



RS>



One problem with current discussions and literature regarding the ethics of 
virus writing and distribution is the lack of dialogue between two opposing 
camps. This paper is not intended to present any final answer, nor to add to 
the literature in the field, but to open the field for comment. My purpose in 
writing this is to provide an initial overview and to elicit feedback from any 
and all concerned with the topic.



TU>



First off all I don't think there is a lack of communication between 
viruswriters and people working to secure computers. We've for example 
a very own newsgroup on internet. Uh, that was sarcastic by the way if 
you didn't understand that :). Comp.virus is moderated and therefor 
highly censored. In this case the AV-persons are to blame for decreasing 
the communication between the two opposing camps.



But that's just one media used by us digital knights. IRC isn't censored 
for example. Not that AV-guys spend too much time on IRC talking with 
viruswriters but if they want to they are free to do so. I would like 
to send my best regards to Mikko (Hermanni) Hypponones and Richard (Rilo) 
Loerakker who I've often seen on #virus for being able to communicate with 
us without starting a major fight.



Oh, I just found out that Rob Slade hopefully will enjoy reading this 
feedback because it was exactly what he was hoping for. Sorry guys, 
to please the other side was never my intention :). You know, sometimes 
things "just like that (pooph!)" happens. And what I've heard is that 
noone really can be held responsible for things which 'just-accidentely' 
happens. It's called fate and by all means it's suppose to happen even 
though the fact it's evil, dumb, unlogical and painful. Nevertheless, 
it's fate. Right Linda?



RS>



For those of traditional moral stance, the current situation is discouraging. 
Peter Denning's "Computers Under Attack" (cf. BKDENING.RVW) has a very thorough 
survey of the field, but it provides little in the way of answers or hope. 


Deborah Johnson's work "Computer Ethics" (cf. BKCMPETH.RVW) is pre-eminent in

the field, but serves only to clarify the problem. Sarah Gordon's interviews 
with computer students show responses typical of almost all such studies.  The 
base attitude appears to be, "If I find it interesting, and I can do it, why do 
you say I shouldn't?"



TU>



I havn't read any of the books named above, and won't read 
them either. But I do however know about Sarahs' work and it's actually 
in most cases really good. In the article she send to 40hex (issue #12) 
she wrote...



"A lot of virus writers seem to think if its not illegal to do xyz, 
xyz is therefore ok to do. "



I don't agree Sarah on this one. I won't just write viruses because it's 
legal. It's not wrong in my definition of what moral is all about to do 
so. I won't go into talking motivation here (again) since that is such 
a stupid question, but one thing is clear, viruswriters' won't just write 
viruses because it's legal to write them, they do it for other reasons. 


Furthermore she wrote (and I quote) "This query is directly relevant to 
discussions of the morality of virus writing."



Oh, and the question was "Where's the harm?". My reply is that there is 
no harm in the writing itself, it's no harm in releasing the source-code 
as pure information about low-level programming to a virus-exchange BBS 
(even though she refers it as 'losing control over it'), but it might 
however harm someone if you infect a computer system with a virus. 


Is it wrong to deliberatly infect a computer-system with a destructive 
virus? Well, perhaps it is but that won't stop me and other viruswriters 
often described by totally insane people as malicious. Ofcourse, not all 
viruswriters share my opinion concerning this and a lot of viruswriters I've 
talked with tell me this is morally wrong. As with pretty much about 
everything, I can (and will) use a self-experied example.. 


I personally did infect a governmental-institution with a highly 
destructive virus. It trashed some of theirs harddrive but I 
doubt they lost any really important information. The computers I infected 
was free-to-use by people who had no computer at home and really needed 
to use computers to print out different documents, finding jobs on and 
so forth. They were used by a lot of personal friends of mine, for example. 
Woops. (Just hoping they won't read this :)).



The virus didn't really harm the users or the data since the data easily 
could have been replace from backups. But what really harmed them was that 
the service of using computers for free was removed. You now have to tell 
them in advance that you wanted to borrow them and for how long. Then they 
might be nice and let you use it. While using it they will watch you like 
scared-off maniacs seeing that you wouldn't access DOS (it was normally 
blocked) and do something they didn't know about because that would be 
dangerous and could harm the computers. They were well aware of the fact 
that their computers had been hit repeatedly times by one or more 'vandals' 
and they really wanted someone hanged.



It was never my intention that people wouldn't be allowed to use their 
computers and I cannot be held responsible for them making that decision. 
It was all their fault and this silly decision resulted in some harm. The 
office was totally messy for some weeks and it was indeed a very chaotic 
place to work at. A few month later, they still had that silly "please- 
apply to use the computers" system because they were really scared of 
getting 'under siege' again. Still, this wasn't my fucking fault. 


You don't agree me? Well, that is not my problem. It's kinda the same issue 
with cleaners corrupting files. Is it the fault of the virus or the scanning 
software? The "who-are-to-be-held-responsible" is an open issue and 
feel free to leave me feedback concerning this very interesting question. 
It wasn't for nothing I wrote the text saying "I'm guilty, but the society 
is to blame" in IR#6 (Non-destructive-Viruses and Payloads), it actually 
had a meaning. However around that time I didn't think about much about 
what I wrote, it was just a cool quotation from Monty Python. Hmm, ofcourse 
I'm now hoping that I didn't mean anything with the text from another payload 
I wrote (also for IR#6) saying "Come to daddy little girl and I will help 
you to grow up.." :-). (Fuck off Blonde, I'm not a child-abuser :-)). 


Anyhow, I wouldn't be suprised if I got a question from a reporter asking 
how I could make such a horrible thing that is "making life harder 
for the poor unemployment" without feeling sorry for it.



Well, like I said above you feel different everyday, and when you feel 
bad you screw morality. Today I feel really good and find no point in 
infecting other peoples software but at the time I spread the virus 
it felt alright or even good to do so.



Let me think, that wasn't really an answer, to let's try again.. "It was 
for me a challenge to infect them. They tried to teach me how to use 
computers and I hate learning from idiots. If they would succeed in 
detecting/removing the virus before it would trash their harddrives 
they would get my respect, if they didn't they wouldn't". That did 
sound good now didn't it?



Well, there is many reason why I did it. Another reason at that 
time was Linda who quite brutally blackended my mind. I thought it was 
funny to relese detailed information about her in a virus. They could 
easily have contacted her since she lives no more than 1000 meters from 
that place. Could she point me out as the writer of it? Would they even 
contact her? Or was they even smart enough to figure a virus had infected 
their system? Those are question that I wanted to have answered, but to 
this day, still haven't. What a shame.



RS>



The proponents of security-breaking activities often question the traditional 
ethical position by asking, "Where's the harm?" This query is directly 
relevant to discussions of the morality of virus writing.



I should begin by defining two generally opposed groups in this area. First is 
the "antivirus", or "AV", research community. Many, though not all, of the 
members of this group would be involved in producing antiviral software. All 
would study viral programs with a view to eliminating viral programs in the 
normal computing environment. They take a rather paranoid, and almost 
obsessive, position with regard to the sharing and distribution of viral code. 
(They would rejoin this last by pointing out that it isn't paranoia if someone 
is *really* out to get you.)



TU>



Here I have another interesting point. Many virus writers are not out 
to create chaos and destruction with their programs, they just distribute 
information about viruses. They see it as it's all up to the reciever 
of the information how s/he will use it. That's not too bad now is it? 
Information is knowledge. Knowledge is power. And if someone is kind 
enough to share his knowledge, should that really be classified as bad? 


I quote Nick Brown of Strasbourg, France who sent a message to 
Crypt #33 (published by Gerge C. Smith a.k.a Urnst Kouch). 


"For example, I've written a stealth-beating integrity checker which 
would not have been possible without Mark Ludwig's explanations of 
virus source code."



In this case Mark Ludwig supplied information which often is classified 
as "bad" to whoever had an interest in programming and viruses. The knowledge 
Nick Brown gained by studying Marks' code helped him doing anti-virus software. 


The problem here is that most anti-virus persons never share any information 
whatsoever. You might disagree me? Well, when I'm refering to sharing, 
I'm talking about giving away virus-source code, nothing else. Ofcourse, 
some from the "other side" do indeed share certain kind of information to 
everyone who are interested (ie. making the info public). And again, as a 
perfect example of this take Richard Loerakker. He has indeed shared 
information (just dig further in this issue, and you'll get my point) about 
anti-virus research. That's great, still he wouldn't give away virus-source 
code to me. Ah well, bummer, I respect that decision.



Anyways, it's a known fact that they (AVers) won't give away virus-source code 
to everyone who's asking for it but they won't even give away information 
to persons who are planning to do something good with the information 
gained. It's really sickening too see small-minded person keeping 
information for themself because they're scared of many things. 


"Will the person use the virus-source code to make viruses himself?", 
is probably a stupid question many AV-persons has asked themself. 
If the person in question really was out to get virus-source code to learn 
from and then create viruses himself wouldn't the natural choice be to 
call one of many VX-boards worldwide or just get some example codes 
from a ftp-site? Ofcourse it would be and the AVers knows it but maybe 
they see it as a matter of principle not to share 'their' information or 
maybe they don't want to have any competition thereby forcing users to 
use their product as the only protection against viruses.



It's sick to see idiots claiming that it's their information and because 
it's their information they won't share it. How did a virus source-code, 
a viruswriting tutorial or a virus-zine all sudden became theirs? Isn't it 
up to the writer of the virus/tuturial/zine in question to decide who is 
worthy having the information they created?



Anyways, if a person has a keen interest in viruses who are to tell him 
that that's bad and he shouldn't have an interest in that? 


RS>



The AV community is not really opposed to the writing of viral programs. It is 
seen as a trivial, and therefore pointless, exercise; but not necessarily evil, 
in itself. The communication of viral program code is also a normal 
professional and academic activity, as long as it is limited, done for a stated 
purpose, and the recipients are known. It is the unregulated exchange of virus 
code and source, providing open access to anyone with a computer and a modem, 
that is upsetting. The opposing group is therefore described as the virus 
exchange community, or "vx" for short. (This designation was first used by 
Sarah Gordon.)



TU>



If I remember right, the term "vx" has been used since the days of 
"The Virus eXchange" in Sophia years and years back. Maybe Sarah 
copyrighted that catchy term, or maybe Rob mixed things up? 


However, when Rob claims that Anti-virus persons won't care if we write 
viruses because it's for them trivial? I think they won't care too much 
about viruses because that would simply drive them insane. They don't 
have any capacity to trace/press lawsuits against every viruswriter, 
so they do the only thing they can do: Ingores it. By ignoring it, it 
doesn't mean they won't care however. They do care about us, they just 
can't tell anyone when they've been defeated by the large number of 
people writing viruses. To prove my point here, you just have to look 
back in the "virus-history. Didn't Frisk (Fridkri Skulasson - author of 
F-Prot) traced the writer of Den Zuk? Didn't Dr Alan Solomon 
with the help of NSY (New Scotland Yard) busted the ARCV and The Black Baron 
from England? Didn't Mikael Winterkvist & Mikael Larsson worked hard 
for about 10 month to bust Demoralized Youth, The Beta Boys, Line Noise and 
ten swedish so-called VX-boards some years back? Sure they did and all 
this information can be gained by reading the previous issues of Insane 
Reality. Rob Slades said they won't care, I say they do care. Ok, point proven, 
let's continue the infite bitching :).



RS>



For the purposes of this paper, therefore, references to "virus 
writing", "virus exchange" or "vx" will mean the uncontrolled or unregulated 
exchange or provision of access to virus source and object code. 


TU>



Well, trying to control information is always hard, so in my opinion, 
there's no such thing as controlled information. Trusts can be broken, 
resulting in private information becomes public. An example of this is 
when Rock Steady gave Aristotle NED. (NED stands for 'NuKE Encryption Device' 
- a polymorphic engine written by Nowhere Man in 1992). This information was 
thought to be controlled for a time (until it was finished), but that failed. 
And remember.. There's a lot who deserves the name Judas out there, or to 
put it in another way 'Natural Born Betrayars' :).



RS>



(This does not necessarily mean deliberate distribution of infected programs by 
such means as infecting a legitimate program and then posting it, without 
warning, to a bulletin board system. "Trojanizing" of normal software or 
malicious invasion of systems is certainly happening in some areas, but it is 
not needed in the current computing situation.



TU>



Atleast, he didn't say that it was the same thing to infect a computer-system 
and to upload information to a vx-board. Some stupid people thing these 
actions are the same because after you've given the sourcecode away you cannot 
control the distribution of it. That did sound pretty unlogical didn't it? 
Well, add "...and since a virus goal is to spread, that is what other people 
will use it for", and you'll understand how those dorks thinks. 


A virus is programmed to replicate, urm, that even kinda defines the 
term 'virus' :). But it is a decision for the programmer to make if 
he wants his virus to infect other people's computer. If he wrote the 
virus to spread he will "trojanize" other software, else he might 
just send it away to a vx-board. There is a huge difference between 
those two things and if you still consider those two things the same, 
you better go back to school. We already know this is the truth, and 
that people write viruses for different purposes (educational, challenged, 
blackmailing, spreading, destroying, publicity, you name it.. we do it!). 


RS>



While there is debate over the relative contribution of "natural spread" and 
virus exchange to the current virus problem, it is known that code made 
available only as openly published material does eventually infect machines 
in the normal computing environment. The term vx does not, therefore, require 
any imputation of sinister motives or hidden activity for the purposes of 
this discussion.)



TU>



Well, if I understand him right, he's saying that viruses uploaded to 
vx-boards eventually ends up in the wild? If that is what he's saying I must 
disagree him. Most of all 'in-the-wild' viruses aren't first given away to 
the vx-boards and spread from there. A virus which infects computers 
worldwide is normally spread by the writer or a friend of him doing it for him. 
If one first send away the virus to a vx-board the AVers will scan it within 
notime and that naturally enough prevents the virus to replicate (People 
actually use scanners alright). I have a few examples (Desperado, Scitzo, 
Taipan, Junkie, Manzon) and could give out detailed information about how they 
spread, but it should be clear even for the most retarded person to realize 
that :-).



RS>



There are some grey areas between these two poles. Some people have both 
written antiviral software *and* contributed to viral spread. Given, however, 
that one could expect a continuum of opinion, those in the middle are 
remarkably few. Either you are for virus exchange, or against it. 


TU>



This is a good point. The 'truth' is not always black or white, but somehow 
gray. There's some dual edged swords out there, but also people like myself 
and a few other people in the pure (black?) vx-community that sometimes also 
can be classified gray. To name a few examples, Dark Avenger wrote an Eddie- 
Doctor, I wrote a Petra remover and Stormbringer wrote a SMEG killer. My point 
is that if you've an interest in viruswriting, you also have an interest in 
anti-virus products/writing. And why shouldn't it be vice-versa? How did the 
AVers first start? Didn't viruses facinate them at all? I think so.. 


RS>



One other, separate, group should be noted. Viral programs are often cited as 
an example of "artificial life", and the research community in that field, both 
professional and amateur, have a legitimate interest in viral programming. 


TU>



I won't classify viruses as a life-form, maybe as an art-form, but that is 
something different :-). A virus won't learn, it ain't smart, and it doesn't 
think. A virus isn't a lifeform by my definition of what a life is. Viruses 
can't drink, fuck or even breath. They do what they're programmed to do, 
and nothing else. It's sad to see people that you could think were on a 
lsd-trip thinking of a virus as a lifeform. You can call Mark Ludwig 
whatever you want, but I stick with defining him as an "asshole-dreaming- 
unlogical-dreams".



RS>



Work in the a-life field, however, does not justify unregulated code and source 
exchange. For one thing, current viral programs "in the wild" (those which are 
to be found in normal home and business computers, as opposed to those which 
exist only in a research or laboratory environment) have only the most tenuous 
claim to artificial life. Common viral programs are simplistic snippets of 
code without anything like the complexity of the simplest known natural life 
forms. In addition, those who really do work in the artificial life area will 
be well aware that it does carry possible dangers, and that research should be 
subject to controls similar to those imposed on biological and genetic study. 


TU>



I mainly agree on Rob here, but there's however a few vague things I would 
like to comment. The true "A.L" reserchers is a minority of "viruswriters", 
and since their viruses won't escape into the wild it's kinda overdoing it 
to discuss this since those "reserchers" share nothing in common with the 
"vx-underground". However, since I'm an open-minded individual, I can 
as well discuss things that I don't agree upon or have no interest in 
at all. (Gee, I don't quite understand why people classify me as evil?) 


In my opinion viruses cannot be classified as A.L, but maybe they can 
someday somewhere in time. It's in my opinion way to early even to bother 
about this.. But how about A.I.? Artificial Intelligence could be implemented 
into a virus but if it (the virus code) serves a good purpose (i.e. they can 
do something 'normal' A.I. cannot) isn't to me very obvious. So - if you have 
any knowledge about this, feel free to contact me about it, I won't be 
bothered typing up a lot of stuff I don't know shit about (well, atleast 
I admit it).



RS>



The most common argument for virus-writing tends to boil down to, "You can't 
stop me." Many promote virus writing on the grounds of freedom of speech, a 
rather curious position in light of the incoherence of the arguments. (The 
most vocal of these tend to be Americans, who frequently cite "First Amendment 
Rights". This refers to the first amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which 
Americans tend to see as some universal law, rather than an arbitrary political 
document, however desirable.)



TU>



Hmm, I wonder if Rob know that not only the oh-so-holy-fucked-up-USA got 
laws about freedom? Places like Europe (who for your information Rob is 
more than one country even though The European Union is trying to make it 
into one), for example! Every country in the west has got equal laws 
concerning this and without any 'country-brag' Sweden got the world's most 
liberate laws about these kinda things! And gee, doesn't viruswriters exist 
all around that globe and why wouldn't we refer to that law as well? 


Again, this is not a law-issue and viruswriters won't just write viruses 
because it's legal. It's legal to write a word-processor as well, and if 
you ask Microsoft if they made MS-Word because it was legal they would 
think you're insane. Well, alright, it might be silly to compare those 
things since it's you won't make any economical profit for writing a virus, 
but fact remains; we won't just write viruses because it's legal. 


RS>



Rights, though, carry with them a weight of responsibility. 


TU>



Who're we to be responsible for? We can't be held responsible if 
someone uses our code for something we didn't approve on. You think so? 
Well, I'm not going to ramble on about definitions and what a good 
sense of responsibility is all about, I couldn't really care less. What if 
I'm consider myself as a normal responsible guy, and Rob disagree me. Well, 
that's his problem.



This also mean that I don't personally give a fuck if someone uses one of 
my viruses for evil purposes. Actually I would be quite happy with it. 
I bet scums that call themselves moralists would consider that irresponsible, 
but I don't, so let's go on.



RS>



As is often

quoted, your "right" to swing your fist ceases at the end of my nose. You have 
a "right" to free speech--so long as you are responsible and do not perpetrate 
fraud. You have a "right" to study whatever you like--so long as you are 
responsible enough not to carry out experiments in poison with human subjects. 
No PC is an island--at least, not where viral programs are concerned. 
Therefore, your "right" to study, write and distribute viral programs carries 
the responsibility to ensure that your creations do not--ever--run on machines 
where they are not authorized.



TU>



With this knowledge, we can classify viruswriters into two categories. 
Responsible writers and irresponsible writers. Yay. Just too bad for 
little Rob that nearly noone belongs to the last mentioned category. 
(Except for a cool programmer from Norway who denied me contributions 
for this issue.. Bummer!)



Anyhow, now we're at the "who-are-to-be-held-responsible" issue again, 
aren't we? Let's say I wrote a virus which I know was dangerous if it 
would leak out. But I also know it wouldn't since my system was a close 
system (I never copied anything to other people), and I sure as hell 
wouldn't be all that crazy to give it away - not even to my best friend. 


Well, then imagine if someone one rainy day stole my computer and sold it to 
someone else (not knowing it was stolen). The theif had ofcourse not removed 
the virus from the system (since he wasn't aware of it, duh), and the customer 
later started a software-copying-club which resulted in the virus leaked 
out in the wild and caused a major panic all over the world. Is that my 
fault? Would I be classified as a computer-terrorist motivated by hate 
because I was a total in-real-life-failure out seeking revenge? 


Ok, it's pretty unlikely this would happen, but consider the spread 
of Tequila and let's assume they didn't infect their fathers computer 
on purpose. Then who are to blame? But ah well, I assume this wasn't 
what Rob was talking about he just classiify the vx-underground as 
not-very-responsible. Well, that's his opinion and opinions does 
really vary. I stick to mine, but respect his (shitty) opinion. One can 
always hope that he respect mine as well.



RS>



One of the most confusing aspects of the "exchange/no exchange" debate is the 
concept of the "good" virus. There is nothing inherently evil in the concept 
of reproduction. (Dangerous, yes.) In fact, the very earliest experiment with 
self-reproducing programs was the Xerox Worm of Shoch and Hupp. This was 
designed to spawn "segments" of the central program on other machines in the 
network, thus bringing the power of many processors to bear on a single 
problem. Thus, in theory, viral programming could represent the same level of 
advanced technology in software that parallel processing represents in 
hardware.



TU>



So what if the first worms was programmed by professionals who wanted 
something useful done? What if there's people who think viruses are 
good? What if Masud wrote a virus to compress files? What if Stormbringer 
wrote a self-replicating-encryption-device, I mean, 'SO?'. The majority of 
viruses is not designed to perform one useful task. They're mainly programmed 
to replicate and that's in most people's opinion not good. Some viruses also 
destroy a lot by trashing the HD. That's not too good either. Good-viruses 
is a non-issue (read IR#6), and I find it quite amusing that people really 
are conserned about this issue.



RS>



That's the theory.  And it is promoted by no less eminent a researcher than Dr. 
Fred Cohen, who did seminal work on the security-breaking class of viral 
programs in a thesis, in 1984, and dissertation, in 1986.  Unfortunately, the 
theory founders on some rather hard facts.



There are three questions to ask of a new, inherently dangerous, technology. 
Has it a useful application? Can it fulfil that application better than 
current technologies? And, can the danger, either inherently, or effectively, 
be controlled? To date, no one has answered those three questions. 


TU>



Well, I won't be bothering too much about question 1, but the replication 
code in the so called good-viruses we've seen served no purpose really. 
Diet (which Masud used for compression) was already invented, Stormbringers 
IDEA-encryption-virus could have been done with a normal TSR. I.e. in 
those cases, they couldn't acomplish the tasks better by selfreplication. 


However, it's possible to control the spread of a computer-virus. For 
example, check the label on the HD and let it just replicate on those 
machines with that very special label. (Creativity could probably solve 
question no 3).



RS>



While a variety of uses have been proposed for viral programs, there are none 
which are not effectively being done by other means. No viral programs have, 
indeed, been seen to be as effective as normal systems. Operating system 
upgrades could not guarantee universal coverage. Network management tasks 
could not promise reliable feedback. Automated utilities would confuse 
novice level users, who never run utilities anyway. The most useful function 
is still that proposed by Shoch and Hupp--and their programs were not, strictly 
speaking, viral.



(Vesselin Bontchev's examination of this question is the most detailed to date, 
and is required reading for all who want to join the debate. His proposals, 
while demonstrating good ideas for safety and control, are still primarily an 
advanced automated distribution system. The necessity for viral functions in 
this regard is still unproven.)



TU>



I really like reading "The Weasels" write-ups, but since they're 
all easy to get your hands on I won't be bothering to quote them here and 
to reply to him as well. My best sugesstion is like Rob's that you should 
read them, too.



RS>



Those in the vx camp will point to two current viral programs which, they say, 
do have useful functions. One of these programs produces compressed executable 
files, thus saving disk space, while the other performs encryption on files. 


TU>



The first one sounds like Masud's virus which used the Diet algorithm, while 
the other one is Stormbringer's. (Information about them described above). 
One could probably list a lot of viruses which in some people's opinion 
could be considered "good". There's a few viruses which removes other 
viruses. There's viruses that includes fancy payloads that makes you 
laugh (that's good). There's viruses that knocks down VSAFE from memory, 
and that could perhaps also be considered good? I havn't yet seen one 
good virus though because all these things could have been done with 
normal programs.



RS>



However, both of these functions are provided by other programs--from which, 
indeed, code was stolen for those two "good" virals.



TU>



Well, Masud did really steal the code of Diet, but I bet he could have 
developed an own algorithm as well. Why he chose to use Diet is for 
me (with an evil mind) quite obvious. Now all AV-programs also had 
to scan inside diet-compressed files, making the scanning a lot 
slower. (Before it could just ignore those files..). One quite cool 
idea conserning viruses making scanner-software slower would be to 
combine (Pklite?)Compression/Polymorphism & Mid-File infections. Wow. 
Just too bad I can't write one of those myself..



However, since a friend of Stormbringer (King of Hearts) implemented 
the IDEA (International Data Encryption Algorithm) in a program, one cannot 
call that code-theft. Stormbringer as well could easily have done the 
same thing since he seems to be a kinda-expert on those things. 


RS>



Neither of the viral programs are as easy to use or control as the original 
programs, and both have bugs which must place them firmly in the malware 
grouping, for nuisance value, if nothing else.



TU>



As a matter of fact, Stormbringer's program would only infect by the request 
of the user making it very easy to control! It wouldn't leak out! 
However, it did indeed bug. For example, I started to write a book some 
while back, (on normal-papers), typed it in to ascii-format and tried 
his GV v1.01 (Good-Virus v1.01) on it. It wouldn't decrypt it even though 
I entered the right password (I know I did so because it didn't delete 
my file). Now that's not good, but I don't blame him :-), I could have 
well used a ordinary runtime encryption program for that task. For your 
information by the way the book was non-viral-related and somehow just 
confusing and crazy. I will give it out when the world is ready for it, 
but not before that time :-).



RS>



Currently, therefore, the utility of viral programs is very much unproven. 
This would, though, mean only that they are neutral, were it not for the lack 
of any demonstrable control. Methods of control have been discussed primarily 
by Fred Cohen, but even he remains unconvincing. The mechanisms generally are 
limited to environmental checks which can either fail, or be easily cut out of 
the program. Some have proposed "hunter" virals, to go after programs which 
"turn rogue", but a program which is corrupted will behave in unpredictable 
ways and a hunter program would likely consume a lot of resources, fail, or 
(most likely) both.



(Cohen frequently cites viral "programs which have been running since 1986 with 
no ill effects" and speaks of a VCE (viral computing environment). There are 
two points to be noted here. One is that Cohen has not yet described his viral 
programs in anything like the detail he put into his earlier work, so there can 
be no independent assessment of his claims. The second point is that the very 
term, VCE, implies that a viral computing environment is substantially 
different, and should be kept separate, from the "normal" computing environment 
as it is currently known. A VCE may very well be a powerful entity, but it is 
still an unknown and unproven concept.)



TU>



Yeah, Yeah, whatever..



RS>



Computer viral programs have an inherent danger: that of reproduction and 
spread. If you study explosives, and pass along that knowledge, you also have 
to pass along the materials before there is any risk of a blast. 


TU>



This isn't very true. What if I tell a moron exactly how to write a virus, 
but don't give out any source code? Then, he can also write a virus! The 
same goes with explosives. Okay, I'm not the Conzouler-kinda-expert-guy 
on this topic but some bombs are easily made and any normal person can 
get the material for making one. However I don't have to build bombs since 
we already got dynamites. Want to buy? Contact me about it, I bet 
Rob would wet his pants if he knew.



RS>



Even then, the materials do not multiply themselves: when exhausted, another 
supply must be found. The same is *not* true of viral programs. These 
entities are *designed* to reproduce. And, unlike the study of dangerous 
animals, or even germ warfare, viral programs are built to reproduce, 
multiply and spread without the aid of a skilled, or even aware, operator. 
If you are careless with a deadly animal or weapon, it is still only a single 
danger in a localized area. If you are careless with a computer virus, it can 
spread world-wide.



TU>



Now we are blowing things up, saying that viruses are (in some cases) 
worse than bombs is overdoing it. It's silly to compare such things, 
and beside this fact, he's wrong as well. A Nuclear bomb causes danger 
in more than a local-area and for a very long time. It will create different 
new viruses, mutating spreading, and killing for a very long time, indeed. 


RS>



We do not use computers because they are smart. Computers *aren't* smart. 
Sometimes we use them because they can do calculations very quickly, but even 
this is only a special case of the real value of computers.  Computers always 
do the same thing in the same way.  They are repeatable. They are, in this 
manner, reliable. Even a computer error can be useful to us--so long as it 
always happens the same way.



TU>



Yeah, I know for fact computer's aren't smart and all this facts listened 
above, your point being?



RS>



Consider, then, the computer virus. In order to reproduce without the informed 
assistance of the user, the virus must be, in the computer sense, transparent. 
It must operate without alerting the operator, or interfering with the 
operator's interaction with the computer. If the virus even posts a notice 
("Hi! I am infecting object X!"), it has a nuisance value and is, therefore, 
not good. (Vesselin Bontchev notes that even such a notice, by possibly 
delaying a process, may have grave consequences far beyond annoyance.) 


If, however, the virus does *not* notify the operator, then the operator is not 
aware of some additional code in the machine. This extra code will have an 
unknown, and inherently unknowable, effect on the computer. The operations of 
the computer are, therefore, no longer repeatable. This is a Bad Thing (TM). 


TU>



Well, If a virus activates a visible activation routine like printing a 
rude message, the operator can simply just remove it and the problems should 
be solved. However, the person who're responsible for the computer-sucurity 
(like an operator) should not let a virus infect his computers in the first 
place. It's all his fault really. If he doesn't find the virus, well - then 
the virus can really spread which should be considered a victory to the 
viruswriter.



If the virus doesn't get noticed because it activates no payload, makes 
no program hang and just sits there then where's the harm? Isn't it often so 
that if we don't know something, we have no problem with it either? 


RS>



Some will protest that I have overblown the danger of both the notification 
messages and the possibility of conflicts. The point that I am trying to make 
is that you cannot predict the harm which may arise from interference either 
with the operator or the programs.



TU>



Well, viruses have existed during the last decade and if no AVers have had a 
single report concerning a non-destructive virus that has damaged or harmed 
something with just its presence I really doubt there's a danger. 


RS>



Software is digital, and is subject to catastrophic collapse without prior 
warning. For those without a background in computer risk assessment, an 
excellent overview for the non-professional is found in Lauren Wiener's 
"Digital Woes" (cf. BKDGTLWO.RVW). An intriguing compilation of the types of 
things that can go wrong is to be found in Peter Neumann's "Computer Related 
Risks" (cf. BKCMRLRS.RVW). At the very least, as Sarah Gordon points out, the 
virus is an autonomous agent, making decisions and carrying out activities 
according to it's own internal constructs and the intention of its programmer. 
This is very likely not in correspondence with your own intention, and is 
therefore an invasion of privacy.



TU>



Since Rob named no concrete example of what could go wrong, I won't comment 
that either. However, I don't find it an invasion in someone's privacy if 
he gets infected with a virus. (Unless the virus collects information 
from the HD and emails it away, ofcos).



However, one of my strongest beliefs is the belief in private right and 
consider people has the right to privacy. Another thing I believe in is 
information freedom. If I found virus-writing in any way what-so-ever to be 
an invasion of privacy, I would have to consider real hard which of my beliefs 
was most important to me.



Would I write viruses without spreading in the wild, but distribute 
the source code as information? Well, honestly, I don't know, but I don't 
agree Rob on this one so I really don't have to consider it either.  Viruses 
won't collect/distribute private files, they will only alter them. If you 
can't deal with it, well, don't buy a computer!



RS>



A number of virus writers will object that their creations simply are not 
harmful.



TU>



I never said my viruses won't do any harm, they do indeed make some harm 
since I code them destructive. If I make a 100% compatible virus (which 
however might be considered impossible), it's harmful.



RS>



Not only is it impossible to guarantee that your virus will not 
conflict with existing systems, you also cannot guarantee that a given system 
will not conflict with your virus. Almost all file infecting viral programs 
will interfere with applications which have an internal integrity checksum or a 
non-standard loader, and will cause those applications to fail. (An example of 
this is that Windows programs infected with DOS viral programs always fail to 
load.)



TU>



Sure thing. Viruses can't be compatible on everything and they just might 
hang the system once in a while. But if they do, atleast they'll notice 
it and can remove it. No real damage done.



RS>



The "Ohio" virus (a prior version of Den Zuk) was not intended to carry 
any destructive payload, but an unusual interaction with a certain network 
operating system caused fatal disk corruption. Since both Ohio and Den Zuk are 
examples of the often proposed "virus hunter virus", it should be clear that 
the concept of using a viral program to hunt down and disinfect other viral 
programs is not a good one.



TU>



Yeah, Yeah, he could as well has written down all buggy viruses out there 
saying "if one of those hangs a PC-server in a big company, that could result 
in the company being bancrupted". . Furthermore, I never said that 
viruses which removes other viruses of the same time is good. They just get 
rid of the competition.



RS>



Historically, and statistically, virus exchange people have been careless and 
incompetent programmers.



TU>



Yeah, maybe so, viruswriter's are hobby-programmers, we won't make any profit 
of it and viruses are free to use so what can the users possible expect? ;). 
So what if we don't test our viruses on all availabe configurations, that's 
not the really the point.  The point is that they should be capable of 
spreading themself and they do.



RS>



Remember that we are talking vx, here, and those viral programs which have been 
released into the wild. There may be, carefully hidden in the desk of a virus 
writer, the "perfect" and harmless virus. If so, we haven't seen it yet. The 
majority have obvious bugs, sloppy coding and derivative programming. Less 
than one percent are interesting for *any* reason; only a handful have unique 
styles of algorithms. And even these last have programming pathologies. 


TU>



Well, I don't consider viruses to be sloppy (in the meaning of unoptimized, 
right?) coded. A few viruses has though obvious bugs, but they'll most likely 
be corrected in the viruswriter's next virus, so no worries. And if Rob 
doesn't consider viruses interesting, well, that's just his opinion. Not 
everyone think viruses isn't interesting and are they not allowed to think 
so because he think different?



RS>



There are two other reasons often given to justify virus exchange. The first 
is generally described as experimentation and education. The second is 
described as antiviral research, or, more commonly, assessment of antiviral 
programs. These arguments *do* have some validity, and should be examined. 
Ultimately, though, the reality fails to support the claim. 


TU>



Viruswriters also experiment for educational-purposes but we call 
it learning. We also write anti-virus software if we find no other solution 
of how to protect ourself against our own creations. We don't wanna be no 
Frankenstein either :). This by itself is enough reasons to write and study 
viruses. We won't need any other (if even the above listed) reasons to 
write them. We don't have to be acknowledged by so called "decent folks" 
to write viruses. They think it's bad, we think not and noone are in the 
posession to say what's wrong or what's not.



RS>



The call for experimentation is somewhat tied to the argument for a "good" 
virus. Current viral technology may be crude and ridiculous, but how can it be 
improved if there isn't any work or sharing of results? Quite true. The vx 
community, however, have obviously not read or noted any programming journals 
or texts. Discussions of programming and algorithms are supported by well- 
annotated code fragments. You don't present a whole program to discuss a 
specific function any more than you send an entire car with a manual on auto 
repair. You certainly don't use encoded or "DEBUG script" object code: that 
has no explanatory value at all.



TU>



Well, if you have an idea you would like to present isn't it better to give 
a complete example of a program to show how it works rather so the reciever 
of the information can start immediately to test things out? I think so. 


RS>



And I have yet to see, in the vx materials, any discussion of legitimate and 
positive uses for viral technology, any discussion of control technology, or 
any discussion directed at ensuring that viral programs do not create 
conflicts.



TU>



I can't give no answer why other groups hasn't released any discussion 
article about positive uses for viral-techology, but I can however answer 
why I havn't.



I find no point in making viruses good. Viruses do, however show some 
flaws in the information-society. Some just might consider that good. 
If I by trashing HDs and creating chaos with my viruses, I might alert 
people that they shouldn't rely too much on computers and on the same 
time notify them the value of information. They won't (most likely) not 
presure information before the information is gone. By doing this, I 
teach them computer-security the hard way.



RS>



In regard to education, it is true that a study of viral programs is related 
to a knowledge of operating system internals, as well as assembly language 
programming. However, viral study *requires* such knowledge, rather than 
providing it. Giving someone a virus and expecting them to learn from it is 
akin to "teaching" a surgeon by handing him a scalpel and pointing at a 
patient. Even the vx "old guard" are beginning to realize this. Viral 
programs use normal computer functions. If you understand computers, a virus 
is trivial. If you don't, well ...



TU>



Well, I don't think anyone everyone with decent computer-skills do understand 
how computer-viruses works. To understand viruses, you have to know the 
operating-system very well, you have to know assembly language and you 
also have to know file (or other media on where virus itsert itself) formats. 


Calling everyone not knowing the above named things "A person who doesn't 
understand computers" is wrong. They won't just understand viruses. For 
understanding viruses, you have to understand computers, but not vice 
versa.



RS>



As far as virus exchange tutorials go, well, let me put it this way. I am a 
teacher. Many of you will also know that I review technical books on a daily 
basis. Some are great, enough are good, many are bad and some are just plain 
awful. Only a few are worse, in terms of tutorial effectiveness, than vx 
"zines" (electronic periodicals).



TU>



Well, with the chapter above he just did attack nearly every vx-group in 
existence. We don't write technical tutorials for idiots, we write them for 
people who are interested in viruses but don't yet know where or how to 
start. We don't want morons in the scene, if it's too difficult for people 
reading them, the message is clear "Don't start!".



RS>



Recently, someone who makes his living pushing virus source code promoted a 
collection of viral programs by suggesting you could test antiviral programs 
with it. This, superficially, sounds like a good idea--if you don't know what 
*real* software testing is like.



TU>



How many viruses a program can find/remove is somehow informative to how 
good the product is for the customer who wants to use the program only for 
scanning. However, such a test simply isn't enough, but nevertheless, it's 
how most AV-tests are done. I don't know who the described person is, but 
atleast it sounds like a good business-idea if you want to fool morons. 


RS>



What do we know about the quality of this "zoo" (set of virus samples)? What 
do we know about the structure, organization, documentation and so forth? 


TU>



What do we need to know about the above named things? Most customers won't 
really care about that at all since the majority of people using AV-programs 
only use the scanning parts. If they're easy to use (such as F-Prot), they're 
feeling comfortable with using such a product. Most people won't really give 
a fuck how well written the program documentation is, how well the code is 
optimized, how the companies structure look like, etc.



I'm not saying that the name named things is umimportant, they are, of course. 
All that I'm saying is that it's a dirty world and if you find a good 
business idea, why not use it even though it means (to some extend) fooling 
your buyers.



RS>



How many duplicates are there? Of course, we *do* want duplicates in some 
cases; we want every possible variation on polymorphs. (For Tremor, that works 
out to almost six billion files.) But then, this collection was on a CD-ROM. 
What a pity. The most successful viral programs are boot sector infectors, and 
you need to have real, infected disks to truly test for them. At a minimum, 
you'd want all seven "common" disk formats, in both system and non-system 
versions. That's fourteen disks--for *each* BSI. [* Boot sector infector- ED *] 


TU>



Yeah, it's hard to test products.. So, why not just thrust experts such 
as Vesselin? His tests are good. If they'll be in the future as well 
is though not very clear since he's now working for F-Prot. 


RS>



For all the length of this piece, it is still only an overview. And, for all 
it's length, it probably hasn't convinced anyone. Ethics education (it used to 
be called "values education"), in whatever form and however presented, has very 
little to show that it works. There are various theories and models of moral 
training, the most sophisticated probably being Lawrence Kohlberg's "Moral 
Development" schema. All, though, basically boil down to sitting around 
talking about ethical dilemmas. They may develop debating skills and 
rhetorical sophistry, but there is no evidence to suggest that any of these 
programs leads to any significant change in behaviour.



While Kohlberg's model of moral development has the most detailed construction, 
its utility is questionable.  His system is not so much one of values education 
as of values measurement.  It is, therefore, a guideline for evaluating other 
ethical training methods rather than a means of instruction and change.  Moral 
development is a six stage structure, assessing the type of reasoning which 
goes into ethical choices.  The stages range from "fear of punishment" to 
"internal ethical principles".  There is great difficulty, however, in 
determining the "stage" of a given individual.  Most ethical discussions will 
be judged as having reasoning at all of stages three, four and five.  This 
entire document, for example, could be dismissed as being level one reasoning 
since it mentions the possibility of the danger of virus distribution and could 
therefore be seen as a "fear of punishment" (negative consequences) on my part. 
On the other hand, most of Kohlberg's proponents dismiss level six, since even 
a psychopath could be said to be acting from internal principles.  Kohlberg, 
himself, has stated that he does not know if anyone consistently acts from 
stage six reasoning.



Probably the major reason for this is that modern society has no fundamental 
moral foundation.  The most widely cited (and Johnson gives an excellent 
critique of it) is utilitarianism--"the greatest good for the greatest number". 
Leaving aside the difficulties of assessing such a measure, utilitarianism, 
along with all the other modern "humanistic" philosophies, has nothing to 
support itself.  Why is "the greatest good for the greatest number" to be 
chosen over "what *I* want"?  An alternative is deontology; ethical principles 
derived from the concept of duty.  (Ironically, this philosophy, while arguably 
superior to utilitarianism, is limited to Kohlberg's stage four almost by 
definition.)  Again, however, there is no underpinning to the concept of duty, 
itself.



Ironically, the much maligned "Judeo-Christian Ethic" did have such a 
foundation for moral standards--God.  The theistic universe may yet have the 
last laugh over the mechanical universe of B. F. Skinner's "Beyond Freedom and 
Dignity". Maybe Jesus *is* the answer--or there may be no answer. 


TU>



Jesus is no, never has been and never will be an answer to anything since 
he doesn't exist. I am not saying that noone named Jesus never lived 
"Once upon a cross", but he sure as hell wasn't God and if he lived 
two-thousand years ago he's gone, dead and spending his time togheter 
with his father in a warm place known as Hell. That might however mean that 
he's still around us somewhere. (Australia is hot, right Qark?) Well, I don't 
know, and I won't debate about religion, again).



Bibliography



Bontchev, "Are `Good' Viruses Still a Bad Idea?", Proceedings of the EICAR '94 
Conference, pp.25-47, also

ftp://ftp.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/pub/virus/texts/viruses/goodvir.zip 


Clarkson, "Windows Hothouse", 1994, 0-201-62669-1, U$34.95/C$44.95 - lots of 
artificial life fun with Visual C++



Cohen, "It's Alive!", 1994, 0-471-00860-5, U$39.95 - an intriguing, provoking 
and practical exploration of computer programs as "artificial life", but 
somewhat narrow



Denning, ed., "Computers Under Attack", 1990, 0-201-53067-8 - collection of 
essays roughly related to security, also "the net"



Ermann/Williams/Gutierrez, "Computers, ethics and society" - textbook for 
computer ethics course: not great



Gordon, "Technologically Enabled Crime", 1994



Forester/Morrison, "Computer Ethics", 1994, 0-262-56073-9 - lots of great 
stories, but short on analytical depth



Johnson, "Computer Ethics", 1994, 0-13-290339-3 - the basic work in the field, 
thorough coverage and good discussion starter



Levy, "Artificial Life", 1992, 0-679-73489-8, U$13.00/C$17.00 - an interesting 
wander through fields studying artificial life but no strong points 


Neumann, "Computer-Related Risks", 1994, 0-201-55805-X, U$24.75 - exhaustive 
examples from the RISKS-FORUM Digest of potential technological perils 


Slade, "Robert Slade's Guide to Computer Viruses", 1994,

0-387-94311-0/3-540-94311-0, U$29.95 - chapter seven looks at the computer 
virus and society



Thro, "Artificial Life Explorer's Kit", 1993, 0-672-30301-9, U$24.95/C$31.95 - 
good fun, but little analysis



Wiener, "Digital Woes", 1993, 0-201-62609-8, U$22.95/C$29.95 - excellent 
introduction to the risks of software



(A fuller bibliography on values education readings is available for those 
demonstrating a willingness to put some effort into it, since, frankly, it's a 
really disappointing field.  Sarah Gordon's "Generic Virus Writer" paper has 
significant resources here.)



copyright Robert M. Slade, 1995

Permission is granted to post this file, in full, on any system. 


======================

DECUS Canada Communications, Desktop, Education and Security group newsletters

Editor and/or reviewer ROBERTS@decus.ca, RSlade@sfu.ca, Rob Slade at 1:153/733

Author "Robert Slade's Guide to Computer Viruses" (US contact 1-800-SPRINGER) 
==================================================================
============== 


Final-Comments by TU>



I wrote this text ages ago and if something is wrong, well.. blame 
the time-gap, not me :-). I didn't bother to read it (even once), which 
means that I only did write the damn thing :-). Hope it was as boring to 
read that it was to write.... Take care, and yea, don't forget: 


Moral does never lead to anything good, so better just do the same with 
moral as you does with everything else: Screw it! :)



                                        ___ The Unforgiven ___ 
