Insane Reality issue #7 - (c)opyright 1995 Immortal Riot               File 026 


% Future %

----------

Frankly said, I don't quite know anything about the future, but since I've 
written a "IR for the future" kind of article for every zine, I will continue 
to do so..



If we find it boring, time-wastening, meaningless and boring to write for 
another zine, this is with no doubt the last magazine you ever will ever see 
from us. However, I do hope this dystopian vision is nothing but wrong and 
that we find it as funny to work with this e-zine in the future as we have 
during the last years.



However, if this means releasing a new zine every three month, make it into 
a monthly journal or anything else, I don't quite know yet. My aim is to 
publish information of any kind which I in one or another way find to be 
interesting, funny to read or in one and another way amuses me. 


This can mean that this zine won't be as virus-oriented as it used to be, 
or it might not. Hopefully viruses will continue to facinate me and then 
it's also very likely that Insane Reality will be highly focused on computer- 
viruses.



However, if you in the future see an IR-zine being released monthly and 
contain nearly no virus-related articles and lack virus source code written 
by me, don't be suprised. Basicly, I'm a journalist and not a virus writer. 
I rather write text than code since I'm better in doing that. The vx-community 
has a shitload of good virus writers, (to which I don't belong) but lack 
ordinary article and debate writers. Article writing is what I want 
to do for the community (and myself) and if that means no, a few or a 
shitload of viruses produced by me, I don't quite know.



The feedback I've recieved concerning our zines is good and encourages me 
to evolve. However, most of the good feedbacks I've recieved about my work 
is not about the viruses written by me, but about my articles. Why I enjoy 
writing articles is to me obvious, not only do I learn the english 
lanaguge better, but I also express myself which I find to be very important. 
As an extra bonus (which I couldn't predict) people in the vx-underground 
also like gossip, scene-news, weird opinions and the averge braindead 
blabbeling stuff which my mind surely represents, and as a result of this 
some even find my writing style (and naturally enough my articles) to be quite 
amusing (Thanks!).



The above chapters does only reflect my very own 'confusing future thoughts', 
and not the rest of our members. Which direction they would like to put 
our zine in is to me not very clear. Some member asked to write some hacking 
stuff to put in this issue and make Insane Reality into an allround 
underground (h/p/v) journal. He was of course discared with that request 
since that would only be confusing and mixed-up. This does however not mean 
that the evil editor (me) forbids him to write h/p things. We're not only 
viruswriters, we're by normal definitions _hackers_ and are out there to 
seek information and knowledge of any kind. Naturally enough, we're also try 
to seek the truth, facts and share whatever we find to be a gain for someone or 
to ourself. This means that material from Immortal Riot not published in our 
zine will continued to be released seperately (from this zine) on our WHQ. 


I would also like to mention that I've recieved a handfull of requests to 
strip the normal parts of our zine, to make it a pure technical programming 
zine. Well, as long as I'm the editor of it, this won't happen. There are 
several reasons why this is the decision of choise. First and probably most 
important of all, I wouldn't like to publish such a zine. Then, I couldn't 
do it better than for example Phalcon/Skism. Face it, a pure techno-zine 
where I'm the editor would be doomed to be a failure because I lack the 
knowledge and even more important perhaps, the interest. 40Hex published 
by Phalcon/Skism is a pure technical-zine and only good programmers can 
really gain further knowledge by reading 40Hex. My aim is that everyone 
should be able to read our zine. If that is people who likes and/or are 
involved in politics, programming, general-discussions or whatever I write 
about, I don't quite care, but I sincerly hope that all readers find atleast 
something to be interesting.



Okay, so better just wait and see what will happen with our little zine, if 
you can't wait until #8 to arrive before you get your answer, ask someone on 
irc (#virus) and I'm sure atleast someone knows something. Ugh, As I figured, 
there is for no use to write something like "Don't fucking bothering to plague 
me with silly questions about when issue #8 are to be due", because noone 
respects that anyway ;).



At last... Have fun, keep on learning, continue evolving and until next time.. 


        > P.E.A.C.E. <



                                                ___ The Unforgiven ___ 
