Insane Reality issue #7 - (c)opyright 1995 Immortal Riot               File 001 


% Introduction %

----------------

Bet you thought we were dead, wrong! Anyways, first of all, forgive me 
for the huge delay between this release and the previous one :). We've 
been idle for quite some time and haven't exactly been motivated to 
do anything for the scene. However, we're now back in business again, 
and will probably continue to be as well.



Bet you want to hear some good excuses? Well, I got a few, but 
the most important fact and the main reason why this zine wasn't 
released until now was due to the total confusion in my very own mind. 


While releasing our previous zine (Nov-94), I was still classified 
as a young, ambitious school-puppet with great plans, hope and trust for 
the future to come..  Well expectations didn't quite match the truth, and as 
a result of this I dropped out of pretty much about everything in my messy 
life (yes, that includes school), and my whole life was in a complete idle- 
void of sorts.



I didn't quite understand the big picture of what was really happening and 
frankly said, didn't care much for anything anymore. Guess such an episode 
is a stage in life we all are easily dragged into and which naturally enough, 
also is very hard to break. An evil-circle of some kind, perhaps? 


However, with a bit of perspective on the situation I was in, seeing it 
from a neutral position, I could with the greatest effort climb up from 
the dark-hole of confusion, darkness and negatism, and continue my life which 
for quite some time lead right to nowhere.



So, for short I pulled myself together and started to face the reality 
rather than fleeing from it. Where I'm now I know, but where I will go 
is still vague and unclear, but atleast, it looks like a new start.. 
Phew.



Anyways, to the one's who haven't spent a large amount of time talking with 
me on the IRC, following my fumbeling "doomed-to-fail" attempts to change 
the situation, I will now atleast try to give you some sort of brief news- 
update concerning the scene and things like that. If something is wrong, 
missing or lacking (which I know a lot of things I will write about will 
be), please spare me your satanic laugh and just ignore it, ok? 


% News-update %



Immortal Riot has expanded quite a lot during the last year, which 
I thought would mean that we'd be more productive, but heh. apperantly, 
I was wrong.



Conzouler was the first guy to join our gang after IR#6 (This is 
described in a more detailed level in VLAD#5), after him Red-A, 
Blonde and Billy The Kid joined as well.



Conzouler, Red-A and Blonde are all programmers while BTK mainly is 
our spreader (he programs as well, but is a kinda rookie when it 
comes to ASM..). BTK is the guy to got Manzon around, he also 
distributed the file WW6ALERT!.ZIP which was infected with 
WW6.Nuclear. That means that he served a good purpose even though he 
doesn't code :). Talking about which btw :) The virus is included 
in this zine, but was way too big to make into a hex-script. So you 
go check out the file REALITY.025 instead :).



A few other people asked for membership in IR, but even though I 
didn't like to turn them down, I had to discriminate them for not 
being swedish ;). However, a few of them ended up better than being 
an IR-member. For example CoKE, he's now a VLAD-member and I 
reckon he's better off being in VLAD rather than in IR..



Okay, that is as much information you'll get about the past ;). It 
doesn't mean that nothing has happend, but the present is more 
interesting than the past methinks..



% The guys from OZ %



You might ask yourself why this zine was released now? Well, actually, 
it's kinda Metabolis & Sepultura's fault. Hehhe, thanks guys 
for pushing me around and stuff ;). So, their plan did work, and this 
is the result of it..



% Viruses & Contributions %



This issue isn't exactly loaded with new IR-viruses :). This is mainly 
becauses we're a really lazy gang. New IR-viruses will though be 
released quite shortly after this zine, so stay tuned..



We've though recieved quite a few (actually a shitload) contribution 
viruses (and other virus-related things) to this issue. For that, we 
would like to thank the following people: Sepultura, Blesk, Rajaat, 
Tornado, Lord Zero, The Attitude Adjuster and Pottie Rottie. Hurray 
for you guys! You if someone made IR7 possible :-). I would also like 
to send a mega-huge 'THANK YOU' to Redback for spelling-checking most 
of the articles :), and various other things (like not releasing stupid 
photo's and for the bottle of Tequila.. Hate to L.I.N.D.A. Haha! :)). 


Please note that there is a lot of 'hex-scripts' included in this 
issue: To convert script to files, do:



debug

