Hello Falckon

Tell us something abuot you ?
- well, i have 14 years old, i love the coding of virii,
my favorite language is Vb :) im very interesed in t he security :)


how did you choosed your name ?
- in a video game that has my cousin

when did you entered the computer's world ?
when i had 11 years old :) i obtained my first computer
an Acer model: Power S Series.


when did you entered the vx world ?
in the year 2003 with my mapson worm.

in what language do you code in ?
i code in Delphi,VB little c/c++ and asm, and for web design in html and php.


what programming language do you like using most ?
VB but in this year, im thinkig that delphi.

have you written any viruses ? if so which would you like to take credit for ?
Multi-Infector aka Munfor
for MachineDramon/GeDzAC


how much viruses have you coded ?, give us names as well ?
VBS/Lorena.a / .b
W32.lorraine aka I-Worm.Mapson
W32.HLLP.Mabel
W32.BLackDead
VBS/Pleomorph
etc..


are/were you a member of any vx group ?
yes, DCA

which viruses/coders/groups/zines do you like most ?
viruses:  W32.Sircam and I-Worm.Kitro
coders: ErGrone :)
groups: GeDzAC, rrlf and DCA ;)
zines: Mitosis E-zine, 29A and rrlf


Which individual or what group do you like/respect outside the VX world ? 
-

What is your view on destructive payloads in viruses? 
i hate the destructive payloads...


Do you think there is such a thing as a 'good' virus? (Describe the perfect virus.) 
that it infects archives of different extensions, polymorphic, crypted
 that what thinks must and not do, its reproduction must be in silence, kill the antivirus
and made in asm




What is your view on the continuous 'war' between VX and AV. 
I do not like the wars, but I believe that it is normal, the fight between the good and badly ;-)



Have you ever confirmed one of your viruses 'in-the-wild'? 
yes, in june of 2003 year


Besides writing viruses, do u have another hobby? 
yes!
play soccer and draw manga.


Do people outside the VX scene know what you do (parents, girlfriend etc.)?
my family :) i dont hide nothing
and two friends... D.N.B and A.P.A.R ;-)



Should viruses be illegal? Is there a difference between creation and spreading? 
I think that the virus does not have to be illegal, are only programs that spreads, nondelinquent that assaults banks
and really there is a great difference between creation and spreading,  is not the same



What is your advice for people just starting out? 
ppl: search virus codes and study it!
read e-zines, learn programming languages :)


Where can you be reached if at all? 

mail: falckon@gedzac.zzn.com
irc: irc.undernet.org chanls: #DCA #Vir #virus #vxtrader :)

thx for the interview and the DCA Group :)
and u for read this :)

thank you Falckon for this interview
Answer: np!