The wonder of Nortel Millenium Payphones
The MOB
The High Class Hooligan
http://www.mobsters.net/HCH
By: Nomad

Well Tophat's been pretty patient recently so I figured better hack out this text file soon so that he doesn't think I'm a complete hallucinating hack.   First things first though... This text file may not be 100% percent accurate but its basically a compilation of 3 other text files (nortel_millenium.txt, nortel.txt, and millenium.txt), and what I could pump out of the phone operators in my area.  I noticed some contradictions in the text files so the unsure sections will have both beliefs stated.  So anyway without further rambling... Behold my friends a complete and concise text file on the most illusive of all payphones the Nortel Millenium!

	The Millenium is a very distinct looking phone.  The first noticeable feature is the cool looking 2 line liquid crystal display that scrolls company slogans and such.  The second noticeable feature is on the lower right, its a yellow card reader module with the Bell's "Quick Change" slogan on it, this feature is rapidly becoming standard on all phones in Canada replacing the old blue card reader which only read the magnetic strip phone cords as well as Credit cards which would be validated after use with the Canadian ACCS database.  These new card readers to my knowledge will read "Smart Cards" AND magnetic strip cards.  The rest of the phone is a complete mat-black finish with the face of the phone a shiny aluminum finish, and a shiny blue stripe for the top section. Under the liquid crystal screen, there are 4 buttons. The first two control the volume in the ear piece (higher or lower). The next one controls the languages (English or French). And the last one hangs up on your call in order for you to make another call.  There are also 4 keyholes present upon close inspection...  2 of the keyholes are on the top left plate, those are for accessing the display screen, and the one is located on the lower left panel for accessing the card reader, and the fourth keyhole is located on the other side where the coin box is located and its for accessing the coin box.  To access the coin box you must insert the card reader key and the coin box key as well as enter a PIN number to open the coin box... this is extra security on Nortel's side.  

	Now that we know what a millenium looks like perhaps we'd like to know about those tough looking armor sections on the sides of it?  Well those babies are 1/4" Steel and the locks used to secure them are four pin  Medeco(tm) locks with a notched T-Bit bolt.  Now I've had the once in a life time chance to watch a Bell lineman actually disassemble one of these puppies, my friends thought I was nuts watching the fat guy take apart a phone but I learned a lot that day... and it was even in school!   Anyway  the part of the phone that includes the card reader, handset, keypad, display, and RBOC logo flips down. The hinge is located just under the card reader.  This whole section is known as the "Logic box." 

	The Millenium's Logic box is a marvel of modern day technology... When you pick up the handset on a Millenium and hear a "dial tone", it is not really a dial tone you are hearing. It is merely a fake dial tone that the phone produces. After dialing your number, the phone then decides on what sort of call it is. Is it local, long distance, or overseas?  If it is a local call, then a synthesized voice asks for the $0.25 and the display also prompts for the money. Once the money is in, the phone picks up the real line that it is connected to, and then re-dials the number that you entered into its memory. The call then goes on as normal.  However if it's a long distance call, the phone checks it's rate table for the current rate based on time of day, day of week, and mileage to destination CO. It then asks for the appropriate amount of money and continues in the same manner as with a local call. The same goes for an overseas call.  

	Now how does that phone dial your number?  This is the first contradiction of many about these "payphones of the future"  in "NorTel Millenium: The payphone for the next 1000 years" written by miind he states that:

	"-Magenta Box is out, because the microphone isn't being muted to deter Red
	Boxing. White Box is out because when you initially dial the number on the
	keypad, it is NOT the DTMF tones that are being stored, but rather the actual
	keystrokes. Playing DTMF tones via a White Box into the mic to dial a number
	won't work because the phone isn't listening to the tones, just waiting for
	electrical pulses from the keypad-"
but "The Nortel Millenium Payphone" written by Twiggy say's that:

		"-What *is* possible, however, is tone-dialing from the Millenium handset. Sure, when you pick up a Millenium, you hear a completely fake and useless dialtone. The
		Milleniums have a dialing pre-processor, and won't let you hear a real dialtone until you have stuck in your card or your money. But even at that people wondered if the Millenium ever really lets the handset mic interact with a live dialtone. Surely enough, pausing until after an operator message allows the tones to work -- the handset mic DOES work prior to a completed call, which a lot of people didn't believe. I've made calls from Nortel Millenium phones (the ones beside Starbucks on Queen St. West, actually) without ever touching the keypad, which in and of itself is not a big deal, but 
		it is something we weren't sure could be done with these phones.-"

I personally haven't been able to tone dial from a Millenium Payphone, but I must admit there is a huge chance that I'm not doing something just right and its my human error that makes me tend to favour miind's explanation.

	Now another common wrong belief is that Millenium's lack a bell or some sort of ringing function... Well I can tell you all that I myself have known that they do in fact have bell's ever since grade 9... you see one of my friends Adam, decided he was going to prank 911 from the school, and he calls them up and says "help alien's are raping my kittie cat!" (this did seem funny at the time).  He then promptly hung up and promptly the phone started ringing I picked it up and then hung it up again, but it kept on ringing until the principal came to the phone to tell them they had caught the pranksters.  Anyways the morale of the story is Milleniums HAVE a ringing mechanism of some sort inside!  And it is quite loud!

	Another interesting thing about these phones is of course their display screen... wouldn't you like to have a custom message on one? So would I... now in theory this may be possible but I have yet to hear stories of anyone actually accomplishing this.  In order to change the display of a Millenium payphone you must first enter a PIN number from the keypad of the phone with the hook down.  A  few common numbers have been in most texts on this subject are: 2541965 and another rumored one is 2727378.  To properly dial these you must leave the phone hook DOWN.  After entering this number correctly you will be asked for a PIN number (25563 is a well distributed one).  To enter the PIN number do the same thing as you did to enter the first number, you now should be prompted to enter an OPCODE... a few known OPCODES are:

267	# Answer detect
274	# Display brightness control (down?)
277	# Display brightness control (up?)
349	# Unknown - Someone know this one?
636	# Memory Access
688	# Unknown - Possibly the "Out of Service" message
66666	# Motor sound, prompts to open phone - Probably coin removal
996	# "Error has occurred"

Now you probably are wanting to know how to create your own messages for loyal Bell Canada users to see when they dial up on the Millenium right?  Well in order to do this you need to The top/front quarter has to be unlocked and lifted up and back first. Inside you'll find a port that a small portable keyboard can be plugged into, and at that point you can truly go about the alteration of the screen contents.  At the current time it is unknown to the phreaking community what type of keypad is needed for the interface, who builds them (most likely Nortel), and what type of connection is used for the interface... You could probably raid a Bell truck and grab a keypad but I haven't worked up the nerve to do this, In Canada the Bell trucks are actually locked.

The Millennium also has a small computer inside but most phreakers do not realize the power that this small computer possesses. It keeps a log of EVERY call made (including 800, 888, 877, 911, 611, 411, 311, and 0) and how the person paid for the call (collect, card, coin) but that's not all, It also knows exactly the number of coins in the coin box. It will also keep a log of all the other systems installed on the phone (yellow card reader, display screen, etc) and if there is something wrong, it sends an alarm to Bell Canada, and Bell sends a lineman to check it out. 

	It is also very plausible that the Millenium payphone does have some sort of tracking device installed inside of it that would relay any interesting information back to Bell Canada, and possibly a gyroscope level of some sort to sound an alarm if the phone is tipped past 90 degrees.  I must stress though that I have no way of knowing about a gyroscopic level but it does seem plausible... Its just a rumor that's been bouncing around the 613 area for a while now.

One more thing I found out recently about these phones is that when you call an Operator with a millenium they see a  special 0(+) MIL_CARD or 0(+) MIL_UNIV flag denotes your call and subjects you to restrictions; for example, an operator won't allow you to dial 0 and use a Calling Card number to call overseas when they see a "MIL" flag on your call.  This is a sort of disturbing finding really when you start to think about it... trust me just think about it...

These numbers were found in various text files

 1-800-263-7412		# Bell Canada Millenium (Help Line)
 1-800-567-2448		# Bell Canada Millenium (Test Line)
 1-800-461-1747		# Bell Canada Millenium (Voice Test)
 1-800-461-1879		# Bell Canada Millenium (Data Test)
 1-800-772-2141		# Bell Canada Millenium (Setshop)
 1-800-668-4862		# Bell Canada Millenium (Coin)
 1-800-668-6851		# Bell Canada Millenium (Alarm)
 1-800-461-1760		# Bell Canada Millenium (Unknown)
 1-800-361-7874		# Bell Canada Millenium (Unknown)


Well that's all the dirt I could find on Millenium Payphones so far, but if I find anymore I'll be sure to post them for the community to use, until the next time, have phun and don't get caught!



Nomad
January 1999 

P.S;
you better make sure that you use a 4 digit date on your text files now or the "millenium virus" as its recently been tagged will get you! Hehe
 


