                             Computer Ignorance
                             by: MetGod for TI#1

[Introduction]

        I decided to write this article because there really is too much
computer ignorance. Perhaps I'm just rambling on about my complaints, but
really, a lot of this stuff is common sense, and people show they don't
have any.. There are way too many computer "users" out there. I quote
users, because a lot of them are just complete idiots..

        I'm also going to mention this "Microsoft v. US Government" and it's
followers..


[Ignorance]

Ignorance, there is too much out there. Way too much, actually..
I can't stand it, there is so much.

For example, these are things that either happened to me, or that I read
about.


I've been asked how to turn on the "monitor".

I've had people complain that the keyboard doesn't work, turned out, that
the idiot had caps lock on when the program wanted "lower" case.. It was
a typing program.

I've read that some Windows users put a floppy disk in their floppy drive,
then logged on to a remote system, and expected the commands ran on the
remote machine, would affect their floppy disk in their non-remote drive.

Another instance, someone said (this was on a mac, by the way) that he had
clicked on save (there's that GUI again), and the computer shut off.
Turned out he had kicked the power switch with his foot. Funny how people
don't check the most obvious things..

Speaking of which, I had someone ask about why a typewriter wouldn't turn on.
It wasn't plugged in.

Another time, there was a disk stuck in the floppy drive. They didn't hit
"eject" button.

Yet another time there was someone who didn't know how to plug in the
computer. Once this was established they couldn't turn on the computer.

I could probably go on forever, but anyhow, I always say "it's the user".
You know what? Most of the time it is.

It's common sense, at least show that you have some.. any amount would help..

It's my belief that users take things for granted. They just use the computer,
but know absolutely nothing about them. If a problem occurs, they either
A) Make up some lame mistake, B) Say it's the computer (I see this in video
games too), or C) Both. Most of the time, the real reason is not either,
it's usually the user.  If people bothered to learn even the basics of
"the more advanced" information, they could determine their "computer
problems", and stop bothering tech support, the sys admin, or someone who
knows a lot more than them.  I guess I'm sick of people taking things for
granted, and then whining when something goes wrong..

[Microsoft v. US Government]

Okay, this has been going on for quite some time now. Seems that MS
has a "monopoly". Bull shit! They have what is givent to them by what
users/buyers buy from them. People always complain that Windows crashes
(which it does), but they don't do anything about it. They blame it on
something else (see above). They could atleast make it a little more
productive, by modifying the OS (again, learning more about computers), or
perhaps programming some usefull utility. These users complain, and
agree with the US government, yet they don't do anything for themselves..
No ONE, absolutely NO ONE makes them run Windows or microsoft software.
There are many other OS's to run.

I bet that if Windows was abolished or whatever, most users would whine
about it even more. They'd complain that they can't run the computer
effectively, or productively. They can't see how to do something (again,
taking GUI for granted.. Imagine how hard programming in machine code would
be.Yet people are complaining about a graphical, easy to use interface. User
friendliness. They don't care (and probably don't know) what they have.
People who enjoyed this type of stuff made it easy, and now that it's easy,
people still have problems.) So, my suggestion to the users, is to
stop complaining, because you probably wouldn't use a computer anymore
without your precious GUI.  Stop taking what you have for granted, and
instead, learn something (or try to anyhow), and be thankful for what you have.

One more thing on the MS issue is that the government shouldn't get
involved with business .. The government doesn't make good (probably can't)
decisions. They will ruin the business (not just MS's).. They will
ruin it just like they did to MaBell in 1984. We definetly do not want
the government in our business.. Even if you aren't fond of MS, or windows,
you shouldn't want this. It's not right, morally or logically.


[Conclusion]

I think I've tried to make it pretty clear that use of a computer takes
common sense (unfortunately not many have it). Use your "brain" that you have.
Stop complaining, and stop taking things for granted. Learn at least one thing
in your very boring, dull life you have.  
Thanks for reading..

Peace out!

MetGod 

Please send your comments to metgod@hfactorx.org or lghtspd@pacbell.net

