                          Interview with the Lich
                               by SeptiC/TI



Tell me a little about yourself as a person, hobbies/music etc etc

 Im just an unusual one. my hobbies are watching every kind of thing that
for many is disgusting, but for me is beauty. That is why I listen to stuff
like Cannibal Corpse, Emperor, etc..One of my favourite hobbies is watching
gore.

All handles have their own history, what's yours?

 Its the name of a mythological creature, of undead wizards which
stop getting old due to magic stuff. Sudenly they converted to undead like
vampires, zomibes, etc..

When did you first come in contact with computers?

 Playing wolfenstein 3D in a 386. It was the only game, so I started
also looking at other programs, even if they were as things such as
word perfect. hehe

And your first contact with computer viruses?

 I got infected whit 'Kampana' (boot version) - i wondered what the hell
it was, i never knew exactly, so i started looking around..

btw, here in south america was also well spread the michelangelo virus.

How long have you been active in the Vx scene?

 4 months. not much, but it is not my intention to be known world-wide

what specifically are your interests in viruses?

 The tought that how well it will survive, how much it will hit,
how many people will get scared at it, almost anything

Do you think of viruses as a form of artifical life?

 Yes!, they actualy live for surviving

What's your "moral" thought about viruses and spreading them?

 When I was a normal user, I feared them. now, I know what actualy
they are, so i know the fear others have is pointless

What's your "moral" thought about destructive payloads?

 Users kill viriis, I kill data. More simpley, my viriis are my data.
Also, destructive payloads make my life easier than an elvira message

Have you written any viruses? If so which one/ones are you most proud of

 Well, for 'Charity', my latest virii, but it was buggy as hell :)
it was very advanced, since my other viriis

How do you name your viruses?

 Mythological stuff, or history stuff, well, its just the think im thinking
the most the days i code them.

What are your goals as a coder?

 Make one of those bloated-in viruses, wich spreads like hell and recived
as some legend.
(Satanbug, Whale, Revenge, Apparition II, etc..)

What are your thought about macro viruses and HLL virii?
 
 Macro virii are virii, so they have a BIG point on that. there are
HLL viriis wich i like a lot. Win.Apparition is my favorite one and was
written in pascal

What virus/viruses do you like the most?

 Natas, Win.Apparition, Win32.Apparition (i'm infected whit it :) and
Revenge

How should the "ultimate virus" look like?

 must be a Win32 mutlipartite, polymorphic, full-stealth and destructive.

Do you use AV programs?

 Only to test virii and to spread them, if you understand :)

If you had to chose one which one would it be?

 DrWeb. its really a hard to beat one.

Tell me a little about SGWW/SG history

 As far as i know, it is 4 years old, has/had members such
as LordASD, Populizer, Beast, LovinGOD ,Eternal Maverick. Many of
them very good coders whith great un-normal viruses. They actually
create viruses wich are out of the normal parameters. I really dont know
more than that. I have been asking LovinGOD about it. :)

What do you think is your greatest achievement in the Vx-scene this far?

 Mhh.. i think that my be to be an active virus maker, that is,
create viriis and spread them, instead of putting them in magz

What groups/persons do you respect most and least?

 (whitout mentioning anything of SG) I respect a lot as a group 'iKX'
and the least will be 'Viper', coz they were very stupid.
as a person, I respect a lot Priest, for certain accept
of destructive virii. and the least would be Mister Sandman, because
he has a very shitty actitude as a VXer. (this is personal from me)

What's your genereal thoughts about the vx-scene?

 Everyone should be carefull of not falling into the 'I am a god!'
actitude. Those who did, haves lots of kissassers in their back and
do stupid things.

Does anyone of your friends/classmates know about your "virus activity"?

 Many, but most of them actually dont know what the hell I'm talking about :)

If so what do they think?

 "can you make one for me?"

What do you think about USA and their "WE ARE BEST" attitude?

 Change the 'BEST' to 'SHIT' and it will be true. Like saying a colombian
person is honest. :)

We are moving into a new millenium, what do you think will happen?

 I hope the medieval times will come back. I think I like those ages.
but there will always be a life

Are you religious?

 Most of religions are a sickness, like a disease.
since i know about the inquisition (i dont know if i wrote right this word)
i dislike anything wich is xtian like.

Do you believe any of the old/new prophecies about total world destruction.

 I do!. an open mind brings many things to it's owner. that is,
i belive in almost everything.

How will the future OS/computer viruses look like?

 MANY inproved virii and MANY improved computers. OS will be of
automatically load and i hope they wont come from macro$hit.

Will computer viruses be used as "weapons" in the future?

 Maybe in a new cold war.. who knows..

What's the current state of your "real life"

 heh. a deep caos, but i love it. (xcept somethings..)
