Hi
I'm R3s1stanc3. I'm a 17 years old student from Germany. 
I became interested in computers and how they work about 5 years ago,
when I got my first own computer with an internet connection. I don't
know anymore what I did with my computer these time, but somehow I
started working with the game Metin2 and it's gamefiles and started
creating my own gameservers. So I got in contact with FreeBSD but that
was shitty work :D
About 2 - 3 years ago, I started realising that this was fucking boring
and I started to read and learn a bit about websecurity (through websec
I also came in contact with the anonymous movement and I'm still
interested in it) and programming in general. Few month after that, I
completly deletet windows from my computer and since then I only use
linux (most times Ubuntu) and a VM with XP for testing purposes.

The story how I came to the VX scene is a boring one, not like some
others the first virus on the pc and the growing interest in how it
works. I found by chance Perforin's papers about Perl viruses and
polymorphism in Perl and thats how I became interested in replicating
programs. So I sent a mail to Perforin and asked if DarK-CodeZ
(that were old papers :D) still exists. He told me to learn a bit more
on my own first and after ~ a month he mailed me again and I got access
to vxnetw0rk. 

Since last year I have my own blog: www.r3s1stanc3.co.cc

Finally Perforin asked me how I think about the scene:
Well, I am in the scene for a few month so I can't say very much about,
but I think ATM there is a lot wrong: most malware is written to make
profit and harm other people and there are only a few people writing
codes for teaching purposes. The "bad malware" is every time the same:
simple bots and trojans written for windows starting via registry entry.
There are much too few interesting codes of viruses and worms or ideas,
e.g. new spreading techniques, new ways of infecting files, complex
cross-plattform malware (a reason why is started writing Java codes),...
Because of that profit horny people, the image of the scene is a very
bad one and if you write open source malware, you can get in trouble
like VXHeavens.

Thats all I have to say here.
I hope, you'll enjoy the new DarK-CodeZ Mag. I hope it will be a great
ezine even if we are only a few active writes.

In the end I just wanna greet:
 - Perforin, for bringing me to vxnet and the scene - hope it gonna be a good ezine
 - the whole vxnet - move your asses and write more codes
 - and the people on the internet, who taught me - thx



R3s1stanc3 [vxnetw0rk]
r3s1stanc3@tormail.org
