Long time no see eh?
That's right. This has several reasons.
First: I'm busy with my job
Second: The local Chaos Computer Club keeps me busy with other projects
Third: Most of vxnetw0rk is sadly inactive. So there was no material
to release.


But hey, here we are again. I have to admit that this ezine is small
but I decided to release it nevertheless because after the release of
valhalla #2 there came... nothing :D

Well ok, there was this raid at vxheavens. They took herm1ts server and
that's why vxheaven is still down. It's a shame that the police took
the server off. This is really sucky because it was _the_ ressource for
every one interested in virus coding. But what really shocked me was
that no one had a fucking backup of the site. Dafuq guys... At least I
mirrored most of the ezines you could get from vxheavens at
http://download.adamas.ai/cgi-bin/dlbase.cgi?dir=/ezines

After this incident what do we have to think about?

* There's has to be an easy way to mirror vxheavens. Possibly an API
that herm1t could restrict to those who want to help him. Else we have
to wget the shit out of it ;)

* Going into the darknet. Moving into the darknet brings a lot more
security when it comes to anonymity. And the hosting server can't
be identified (when there's no major fuck-up from the server admin)

* Make backups!

* If Darknet is not an option, think about bullet proof hosting. Or
switch your hosting into a country where they don't care what you host.

* Take care of yourself. Make precautions. Be a bit paranoid.


I'm looking forward to see vxheaven up again. To anyone who wants to
help, make a donation!
Paypal: harald.freeman@gmail.com WM: Z319192256417


Now some words to this weird paste[0] about the vx scene.
W T F. They don't "pollute" the scene... mostly they are the scene if
we talk about the most active players.
If this paste was really done by izee (who went apeshit after SPTH and
other dudes did their own ezine) then I ask myself why the hell he is
still mad. Dude cmon, it looks like the release was to slow for some.
Get over it. Do you see me whining that valhalla #2 got released without
my contribution? Nope. Relax, take a drink, start coding again and be
happy.

For the rest, I like to see that EOF is up and running again with a real
blog! Very good :)



Last but not least I want to thank R3s1stanc3 who came out of nowhere
and is now an active member of vxnetw0rk.

Greetings flying to:

SPTH		-	Keep me up2date 'bout valhalla #3 ;)
skier		-	The guy from the nederlands. Probably high as fuck :D
WarGame		-	Keep your good work up. I like to read your articles!
alcopaul	-	Keep on blogging and coding and thx for the interview!
Metal-		-	We have to speak about some p0rn ;)
pr0mix		-	Getting ready for EOF #4!

All the guys who helped in the creation of this ezine.
Everyone in the VX scene. Keep on coding!




Greetings Perforin <virii@tormail.org>

"I am convinced that computer viruses are not evil and that programmers
have a right to create them, to possess them and to experiment with
them! Truth seekers and wise men have been persecuted by powerful idiots
in every age..." - Mark A. Ludwig





[0] http://tinyurl.com/bpm46rz





