CRYPT NEWSLETTER 37
May - June 1996

Editor: Urnst Kouch (George Smith, Ph.D.)
Media Critic: Mr. Badger (Andy Lopez)
INTERNET: 70743.1711@compuserve.com
          crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu

NOTE: Subscriptions to Crypt Newsletter can now be
had for $10 US for one year.  Checks and money orders
to the editor at 1635 Wagner Street, Pasadena, CA 91106
along with a current electronic mail address where you
wish to receive your issues of Crypt Newsletter.

Crypt Newsletter articles may not be reproduced in or on 
other media without consent of the editor. Rates based on
word count are reasonable. Queries by e-mail are welcome.



ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ Contents: Crypt Newsletter #37      ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

 THIS ISSUE

BOOKS
"Breakthrough:" The words of prophets aren't written on the walls of
CompuServe
"American Extremists:" More words on Lyndon LaRouche
"The Future Does Not Compute:" One author's image of the Inferno
Mars attacks: Los Alamos guru featured in "Washington Babylon"
NEWS
Myth builders: GAO hackers report breaks wind
Some comments on NCSA Virus Prevention Con '96
Kevin Mitnick plea bargains
The endless river of H/P/A/C/V and you
MISCELLANY
  Letters page
  Crypt Newsletter Hypertext
  Crypt Masthead Info
  Credits/Acknowledgment





THE BUILDING OF MYTHS THROUGH CAREFUL STUDY


          "It is a great art to know how to sell wind."
                             -- Baltasar Gracian


The beginning of Summer has delivered a box load of public
announcements on the growing horror of ill-defined hacker menace.
Ever since the end of the Cold War, the U.S. government has been
madly casting about for new enemies to take the place of the old
bogeymen in the Politburo.  At various times Third World nations
have been suggested. However, U.S. citizens are uninterested in
thugs from Somalia or Balkan butchers.  They are loutish, messy,
and lacking in ICBM fields, B-52s or other obvious means of
projecting power or violence beyond their territories. Terrorist
groups domestic and international have been sought, too.
Unfortunately, the Japanese cult of nerve gas manufacturers has
proven unstable as have the U.S. militias. The militias also have
had the gall to hole up in isolated farm houses while surrounded
by regiments of FBI agents.  The pictures at ten fail to move the
populace to panic, instead provoking laughter and ridicule or the
vague suspicion that government employees are overdoing it.

However, bands of hackers have proven far more durable
and roadworthy. This is because they are being cleverly sold as
capable of raping and pillaging the archdukes of capitalism simply
by pushing a few buttons from the refuge of a faraway land or county.
It is the closest anyone has been able to come to the symbolism of
ICBMs and computerized launch codes.

Hackers are good at making mechanisms, too.  Small boxes utilized
for the purposes of defrauding everyone's nemeses, the telephone
companies, are now metamorphosing into bigger boxes.

The recent issue of FORBES ASAP featured a number of menacingly
posed fellows on its cover who consented to be avuncular bogeymen for
a roundtable of editors. They spoke of weaponry like remote mass
automatic garage door openers, HAM and short wave radio snoopers which
allow one to eavesdrop on and speak through fast food restaurant
drive-up speakerphones or those small walkie-talkie systems sold as baby
monitors in catalogs like THE SHARPER IMAGE.  Electronic death ray
projectors called HERF guns were discussed.  No one seems to have
actually seen a HERF death ray but few people ever got to see a real
ICBM or a shell loaded with sarin, either, so the point Crypt
Newsletter attempts to make is probably moot.

The Senate subcommittee on investigations was also hard at work
this month publicizing a 63-page Government Accounting Office
report entitled "Information Security: Computer Attacks at Department
of Defense Pose Increasing Risks" on the threatening world of computer
saboteurs and hacks on DoD networks.

But the Government Accounting Office's report (GAO/AIMD-96-84)
promised a lot more than it delivered. Disappointingly, Crypt noted it
proved to be an extremely general discussion of hackers leavened with
a lot of unsupported conjecture.  A look at it convinced Crypt that
anyone wishing to know anything real about computer hacking incidents
would be better served by going to a good bookstore and purchasing
copies of "The Hacker Crackdown," "The Cuckoo's Egg" and "Firewalls
and Internet Security."

Long segments of the GAO treatise also retold -- much less effectively --
news stories that have appeared in the media in the last five
years.  For no apparent reason other than to provide "what-if's,"
the GAO republished the tale of a scary Rand information warfare
gaming exercise reported in a August 21, 1995 cover story for TIME
magazine. It read as fiction. The GAO paper also anonymized and
failed to properly cite the perfectly precise and specific story of
Bill Cheswick and Steve Bellovin's tangle with the Dutch hacker
"Berferd" in 1991 (and published in their book, "Firewalls and
Internet Security.")

In the report, much is also made of a two year old incident
at the Air Force Material Command facility in Rome, New York.
Although the republic was not harmed, GAO and the military assessed
the difficulties caused by the hack to have set the Department of
Defense back $500,000.

Jack Brock, the congressional General Accounting Office's point man
on its hacker report, said in related congressional testimony:
"Terrorists and other adversaries now have the ability to launch
untraceable attacks from anywhere in the world. They could infect
critical systems with sophisticated computer viruses, potentially
causing them to malfunction."

Yes, and it is easy to imagine that this statement would come as a
very bitter surprise to Christopher Pile, a real British hacker who
cast his SMEG viruses into the computer underground.  Of course, he
turned out to be far from "untraceable" and is now serving a year and
a half jail sentence on charges having to do with his comings and
goings in cyberspace.

The GAO reports DoD computers "may" have been the target of assaults
in the last year.  Later on in the text, it is cited that there
were 559 "officially reported" incidents in 1995. Very little meaning
can be extracted from these figures since no real methodology on their
derivation is presented.  For example, would 250,000 assaults
include Crypt Newsletter using telnet to bring up a network address
reprinted in a nonfiction book on UFO's and finding that it was
PENTAGON-AI.ARMY.MIL, a restricted site?

A recent Washington Post article on the GAO/hacker/DoD congressional
hearings also mentioned other reports which have built scenarios for
effect. To wit: although FAA traffic control computers are safe
because they are old, complicated and rickety, it is theoretically
possible that future replacements would prove to be playgrounds for
malicious but invisible hackers.

The metaphor of the popular movie was also used to make a point: In
"The Net" a hacker changes the medical records of the Secretary
of Defense at the Bethesda Naval Center.  Readers are asked to
think of this as real.

Work published by the Computer Security Institute projects the
hacker menace onto US corporates, too. Forty two percent of 428
respondents to a poll insist they've been hacked within the past year.
The respondents are invisible.  Always shielded by layers of
confidentiality and anonymity we do not grant victims of sex
offenders, corporate victims are said to speak of computer evil-doers.
Science Applications International Corp., a giant think tank
and Pentagon contractor pulls out of Congressional hearings on criminal
hacking.  "We have non-disclosure agreements with our clients and we
were not given clear and absolute assurances that under questioning
we wouldn't be expected to violate those nondisclosure agreements,"
said a mouthpiece for the organization.

Many, many foreign countries -- "more than 120" -- appeared to have
hackers whom at one time or another try their hands on Department of
Defense systems, Mr. Brock said. According to the news, he added the
National Security Agency knew which countries these were but this was
classified information. Secret. None of your business even though you
paid for it. Invisible.

Crypt phoned Mr. Brock in an effort to shed more light on the data
in his report but he said he couldn't discuss anything about it with
anyone, particularly over the telephone.  Mr. Brock said the NSA had
presented the data to him but had sworn him not to talk of it.  Crypt
felt sorry for questioning Mr. Brock because his style made it clear he
was a little bit frightened of the mandarins at the NSA.  One received
the distinct impression that Mr. Brock felt that even if the simple words
"hacker" or "computer virus" were mentioned on an open line too many
times a bad thing might happen.  It was like the reading of a horror
novel by H. P. Lovecraft. If the wrong word were invoked an unspeakable
creature might be summoned from the Arkham of Ft. Meade, one that could
mutate the careless utterer of it into a many tentacled fish-frog.

In seriousness, perhaps a bad thing could occur.  A career could be
smudged over something as simple as candor in a three minute phone
chat.

Mr. Brock also said a number of odd things.  He said that there
had been information presented by the NSA of varying sensitivity and
there had been no decision on how it should be classified. So no blanket
classification had been made but still no one could speak of it.

"I'm not a good source," said Mr. Brock.  Then he repeated it: "I am
not a good source."  What? But if not the GAO investigator, then who?
Of course, the answer is a circular argument.  The NSA was the final
source -- that's who.

Well, Crypt Newsletter readers no longer believe the standard
bromides delivered by intelligence agencies. They know that
excessive classification or gag orders are an indication of someone
wishing to hide data that qualifies the publicized announcement, to
disguise plagiarism from open sources, or cover up incompetence and
outright fraud.

Wrestling with invisibles, or symbols, was always what the Cold War
was about. No one except an obscure lunatic named T. K. Jones in
the Reagan administration really thought that either U.S. generals
or their Soviet counterparts would call down the wrath of 10,000
nuclear warheads.  Yet the symbol of the nuclear-tipped missile
remained the stone tablet of the religion of geopolitics, a totem
that could be successfully shaken at newspapers, Congressional
meetings and international summits.

Hackers are a totem of great power, too.  For a short period of
time, Kevin Mitnick became the 1995 equivalent of Muammar Ghaddafi, at
least in newspapers and on TV. Unknowable and unknown, his image - that
of a menacing-looking cypher in thick glasses - was an appropriately
fearful symbol to some. When the Mitnick-Ghaddafi turned out to be
normal looking months later, no one cared anyway. Tsutomu
Shimomura, like US F-111s, had already been dispatched to banish the
Mitnick-Ghaddafi to the trashpits of Gehenna -- in this case
city jails in North Carolina and Los Angeles. Shimomura, it
turned out, appeared to have missed the real target but the F-111s sent
to mail the Ghaddafi menace C.O.D. to Allah missed, too, and media
history has been kind to both affairs.

The Mitnick-Ghaddafi, said those with the loudest voices, at one
point in the dim past might have been able to start World
War III by diddling computers in Cheyenne Mountain. They were confused
by Hollywood and appeared to believe that a teen movie called "Wargames"
actually featured the Mitnick-Ghaddafi. Since the Mitnick-Ghaddafi had
neither a press agent or a constant address he was certainly hard
to find and not in much of a position to clarify matters.  This worked
against him and for the forgers of symbols and the tellers of tales.  If
Mitnick had possessed the wit to walk into a TV studio the day
after his face showed up on the front page of The New York Times or to
spend $500 dollars for a couple of news releases on the PR Newswire, his
career as a religious totem used to scare and thrill the citizenry
would have been over long before media momentum and book sales
transformed him into a myth.

From virus writers to Internet marauders the average computer d0od
who fancies himself a successful hacker has never understood the
mechanisms of media symbolism.

Invariably, the hacker can always be lured into exaggerating his
impact upon the republic by appropriate blandishments from reporters
in the mainstream media. In need of a malevolent sounding man to portray
as a dangerous computer-master weirdo?  Place a query on the Internet
and the editorial phone will ring off the hook.

From the perspective of the hacker this  seems like an attractive deal.
He gets to tweak the nose of suits, make Congressmen scurry about at the
behest of the NSA and cause the neighbors to keep the cat in at night.
Power! Celebrity! The euphoria lasts until the inevitable story is
published and a couple hundred thousand people read it. The reality of
this leaves the interviewed computer jockey feeling nervous and cheated.
He has been cast as a hideous but banal carnivorous ogre, not a cool
clove cigarette-smoking anti-hero. If a photo is published it will
invariably be the one that was the product of an atrocious camera angle,
the one that made him look like a creepy slug or Doctor Octopus. Locals
may be sufficiently frightened by this image to consider mustering a
party to slay the ogre. Instead of getting on the cover of People, it has
become time to lay low at the job, to change one's phone number or to ask
the parents to fund a sojourn at an anonymous state university. The
hacker so treated finds his life transformed as if by a philosopher's
stone. But instead of being transmuted from lead into gold, the media
has cruelly turned him into just a different isotope of lead -- that of
the pariah.

Malicious hackers are a fact of life. Some of them break into systems
or write viruses that spread around the world. Some of them get away
with a lot. But the lesson to be learned is not that they can smash
the republic or loot corporate treasure. Rather the lessons are the
stories of Kevin Mitnick, James Gentile, Chris Pile, Kevin Poulsen,
Phiber Optik or whomever is the newest flavor of the week in the myth
business. One can count on, at the least, family embarrassment and the
inability to conduct one's future affairs in private or, at worst, a
criminal record based, in part, on wind and an image that becomes a
radical millstone in conservative times.


Notes:  

1. The quote from Science Applications was taken from a
story in the June 6 issue of the Washington Post: "U.S., Private
Computers Vulnerable to Attacks by Hackers, Study Says" by
Elizabeth Corcoran.

2. More on the GAO's "untraceable" hackers who were into Air Force 
Material Command computers in Rome, New York:

On Monday, June 23, Reuters reported that one 21-year-old Mathew Bevan, 
a computer technician, had been charged with conspiracy to gain 
unauthorized access to computers and conspiracy to cause unauthorized 
modification to computers." 

Further, one Richard Pryce was previously charged with using a 
computer in his bedroom in north London to tap into several
U.S. Department of Defense systems over a period months. 
  
Reuters reported Pryce and Bevan were arrested after a lengthy 
search initiated by the U.S. Air Force's Office of Special 
Investigations. 



"BREAKTHROUGH": THE WORDS OF THE PROPHETS AREN'T WRITTEN ON THE
WALLS OF COMPUSERVE

Whitley Strieber wrote the ultimate book of alien encounters in
1987. Called "Communion,"  it was a perplexing story regardless of its
veracity.  Strieber recounted a number of alien experiences
that were ghastly but eventually enlightening. Many readers became
completely entangled in its web of alien visitation/UFO hallucination
and the hardback quickly rose to the top of the bestseller lists.

Predictably, media reaction to "Communion" was violent and negative.
"Report on 'Communion'" by Texas reporter Ed Conroy attempted to
redress the imbalance by researching Strieber's background.

Conroy portrayed Strieber as a thoughtful man of letters
whose childhood was typified by an extremely vivid imagination and
a boyish sense for practical jokes. In "Report on Communion" Conroy
produced debunkers and friends and expounded on the history of fairies
and other legends.  By the end of the exhausting read Conroy
mentioned that as a result of his work he was also convinced he had
been an abductee. In Strieber's book, the author mentions Conroy
suffered professionally for admitting this.

In "Breakthrough" (HarperCollins Spotlight), Strieber reiterates
the image and character of the aliens evoked in "Communion."
Strieber has always been a fine writer and the book's strongest
parts are weird, sometimes gripping excursions into the nature of
reality and the author's visitors.  The book is divided into three
sections which discuss further visitations, Strieber's ride in a flying
saucer and an outline of UFO lore. Area 51, sightings, the alien autopsy,
the giant face on Mars -- all are there and jive with the themes beloved
by viewers of the "X-files" (it's no accident  "X-files" merchandise and
books are advertised in the paperback's ad pages) and alien/Pentagon
conspiracy literature.  Strieber claims, too, that intelligence agencies
have been out to harass him for his writings.  His house in upstate New
York, he says, was broken into and his computer sabotaged with a virus.
Near the end, Strieber veers from unbelievable stories of alien visits
for a moment to make an impassioned argument against excessive
classification and secrecy practiced by the federal government.
"There are so many nooks and crannies, so many power centers, so many
secrets," he writes.

Strieber laments that the literature on UFO's and aliens is rife
with disinformation.  Ironically, this got Crypt's attention but
probably for the wrong reasons if one looks at it from the perspective
of the true believer.

Strieber published an electronic document in "Breakthrough" called
"hacker.txt" which purports to be a list of secret military Internet
sites involved in hiding information on UFO's and alien visitors.
It is common in cyberspace, Strieber says, and can be retrieved from
CompuServe's NewAge and UFO forums (this is accurate, I found a copy
there).  Originally published in Computer underground Digest 5.13 as
an example of the type of literature, it is plainly a hoax, in style
much like things like the "Good Times" virus.

The meat of it is a list of Internet sites, classified according
to Strieber, that divvy up into Pentagon, Utah, Nevada and
California locations.  It took about five minutes of work to
blow a hole in its tissue of electronic phlogiston and Crypt
wonders why editors at HarperCollins Spotlight, "Where Nonfiction
Shines," didn't help out a little on the original manuscript for
the sake of a reputation.  Moreover, why couldn't Strieber have
figured this out for himself?

For example, the "Sensitive Compartmented Information Network" --
a top secret site, corresponds with a computer at Boston University.
I talked to a nice lady network administrator there and she laughed
and assured me BU hadn't opened any branch campuses near Area 51 or
Wright-Patterson AFB. On a slow Friday afternoon, she was amused
to find BU computers as bit players in a book on alien visitation.

A long list of "military Internet sites" purported to be part
of a "top secret network" in Nevada are really in Deutschland:
at the University of Stuttgart, the Berufsakademie Mannheim, the
Hessian center for "Datenverarbeitung" in Wiesbaden, a
"Fachhochschule" on Jakob Street in Albstadt and assorted computers
in Berlin.

Someone should please tell HarperCollins that the words of prophets
aren't always written on the walls of CompuServe.

More recently, Streiber held an on-line conference on the commercial
network where he spoke of alien implants. There was brief discussion
on whether civilian discovery on the true nature of these devices might
trigger extraterrestrial retaliation. "Breakthrough's" author mentioned
we might already be subjugated and the US government was hiding the fact.
Strieber indicated he was moving to San Antonio where he planned to
have an implant of his own removed by surgeons. Streiber was going to
attempt to have it analyzed and report his findings in the coming year.


Additional notes:  In "Breakthrough," Strieber infrequently mentions
being treated hatefully by journalists.  One anecdote involves
a free-lance writer whom Strieber says mailed him a set-up
concerning alien visitation as part of a muckraking project and
then accused the author of being a cult leader. Strieber subsequently
sued him for defamation.

It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out Strieber is referring
to Stuart Goldman, a southern California-based writer who broke into
the national news prominently when he became embroiled in a criminal
investigation over an inept hacking incident at Fox Television.

In March of 1990 Goldman was arrested and arraigned in federal court
in Los Angeles after his apartment in Studio City had been searched and
his computer seized.  Charged in California and New York, an affidavit
filed on him by federal prosecutors said Goldman had made several
attempts -- at least one of them successful -- to enter Fox computers
and download files regarding news stories worked upon by Fox TV's
journalists.

Goldman had worked previously as a free-lancer for Fox's "A Current
Affair" according to an article in the Los Angeles Times.

Fox employees in New York discovered in 1989 that someone had been
trying to access their computers and complained to the US Secret
Service. The Los Angeles police became interested after the Secret
Service became involved.  Around the time of his arrest, Goldman had
been pitching an expose on the tabloid news show he worked on to
the Los Angeles Times.

As the case unfolded in newspapers, Goldman claimed Fox was trying
to silence him for threatening to expose its tabloid news show's
journalistic methods.  Fox retaliated by claiming Goldman had been
trying to sell story ideas purloined from Fox computers to
other outlets.  Part of this proof was alleged to be a computer file
on Ron Reagan, Jr's "lover" which Fox claimed had been planted
as part of the investigation to ensnare Goldman.  Goldman was
said to have attempted to sell the story idea to the Boston Globe.

Fox claimed Goldman had been using the password of an "A Current
Affair" employee named Riva Dryan.  Subsequently, computer activity
at the network was monitored. Intrusions on Dryan's password were
observed for a period of time, telephone traces made and the calls
traced to Goldman's apartment in Los Angeles.

The Los Angeles Times reported that investigators claimed Goldman
had copied the bogus Ron Reagan, Jr. tip to his own computer.

The story was complicated by the fact that Goldman had worked for
"A Current Affair" and split acrimoniously with the show over its
handling of a segment he was working on for it concerning
Whitley Strieber's UFO abductee followers.  Goldman battled with
Fox over the segment -- which never aired -- and then took the scoop
to rival "Hard Copy." "Hard Copy" ran a segment based on the UFO
story which, in turn, triggered a Goldman debate with Strieber on
CBS's "Good Morning America."  On the show, Goldman likened Strieber
to Guyana cult leader Jim Jones. Strieber protested and then
filed his defamation suit. Ironically, Ted Kost, the private detective
hired by Strieber to serve Goldman process papers wound up being
hired by Goldman to investigate the LAPD's case against the reporter
after Strieber dropped his defamation charge.

In 1991, Goldman pleaded no contest to the felony charge of
unauthorized access to a computer system.  He was placed on five
years probation and ordered to pay $90,000 to Fox, reduced to
$12,000 on Goldman's plea that he was "indigent."

Deputy District Attorney Richard Lowenstein asked for dismissal of
four additional counts of unauthorized computer entry and Los Angeles
Superior Court judge Richard Neidorf warned Goldman that if he
continued to use computers to get himself into trouble he would wind
up in court again.



LYNDON LAROUCHE, REVISITED:  BLAME IT ON BRITISH SPYMASTERS AND
JEREMY BENTHAM

Those who tuned into Crypt's last offering recall our brief
jaunt to Lyndon LaRouche's Web site on the Internet. Drawn to it
by a 30-minute prime-time broadcast on CBS earlier this year, "the
world's foremost economic theorist" and Presidential candidate commented
on economic doom, called Newt Gingrich and his followers "Hitler-type
criminals" and drew them all into a hard to follow warren of malevolent
conspiracy linking Wall Street bond marketeers, members from the Bund of
the media elites, powermad elements said to be lurking in British
intelligence and Chinese nuclear-tipped missiles.

LaRouche's antipathy toward the British was also in high evidence
on his Web page. He claimed they were responsible for a large
portion of the bad taste rampant in the western world!  And, of
course, it is impossible to forget the LaRouche tenet that
Queen Elizabeth was a "drug pusher."

Crypt found some of this difficult to grasp but a new book by
John George and Laird Wilcox, "American Extremists" (Prometheus
Books), sheds some light on the issue in a chapter on the LaRouche
network.

"LaRouche's animus against the British greatly stems from his
view that Aristotelianism (as advocated by the British
[empiricists . . . John Locke, Jeremy Bentham . . .] is responsible
for many of the ills of society.

By applying Aristotelian thought to ethics, says LaRouche, one gets
moral relativism -- the idea that one system belief is as valid
as another.  This is anathema.

Further, "according to LaRouche, the 'oligarchs,' the wealthy British
families are disciples of Aristotle and his intellectual tradition.
They use his methodology in a conspiracy to keep the masses
uninformed about the true nature of reality and helpless against
their nefarious machinations."

"I see," said the blind man, as he picked up his hammer and saw.

Anyway, ""American Extremists" is a tremendous book.  It explains
the impenetrable metaphysics of many fringe Americans from the far
left and right.  As well as being extremely detailed and expert, it's
also greatly entertaining in its chatty tales of unusual people.
The lives of the extreme tend to be, uh, extreme and it's difficult
not to break a smile while reading the history of them.

Turning back to LaRouche, we find that he is one of the most
sophisticated of American extremists.  If his writings are to be taken
seriously, his philosophies are mercuric amalgams of the left
and right. Wilcox and Laird write -- by way of George Johnson's book
"Architects of Fear" -- that this fusion stems from LaRouche's unusual
conspiracy beliefs:

"[LaRouche's] politics are so complex that he has been simultaneously
accused of being funded by the CIA and KGB.  LaRouche counts among
his enemies not only international bankers, the Federal Reserve System,
and the Trilateralists, but also Ken Kesey, Bertrand Russell, Playboy
magazine, Isaac Newton, the Nazis, the Jesuits, the Zionists, the
Socialist International and the Ku Klux Klan."

Followers of LaRouche have a history of being very loyal to
the man. Many of them are still with him, even after he changed
abruptly and swung hard right from early days as a Trotskyist.
LaRouche runs a headquarters in Leesburg, Virginia, where computers
whir behind locked doors and bulletproof glass.

From Leesburg, LaRouche works on a plan to install a new world order
based on the views of LaRouche.

LaRouche's Schiller Institute promotes the view held by him and his
wife that classical German culture is superior. LaRouche offices
feature a piano room with music from German composers and German
posters.

In early writings, LaRouche speaks of the wide-ranging role he plays in
followers' lives. He warned them as far back as 1973 that devotion to
him would involve some stress.

"In respect of the mental processes, absolutely nothing is secret;
there is merely blindness. . . . In Germany I am Der Abscheulicher (the
abominable one); I shall soon be regarded similarly here," he said.

In "The Politics of Male Impotence" in 1973, LaRouche said that he had
set up a European base "on the premise that our growing importance in
the world would close borders to me very soon."

According to an article in the Los Angeles Times in which the prior
anecdote appeared, "All Germany is a heaving mass of sexual impotence,"
LaRouche wrote.

When federal agents raided his Leesburg compound in 1986 prior to
a lengthy trial that eventually put him in jail on fraud charges,
LaRouche claimed that Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev had called
for the raid as a precondition for a superpower summit that had just
been concluded. According to LaRouche, the demand included a plan
to kill him.

"This is the truth, and anything contrary to what I have just stated
is false," LaRouche wrote. "The man with the mark of the beast on his
head, [Mikhail Gorbachev], has demanded my elimination."

More on the swizzled politics and activities of Lyndon LaRouche is
left for another day.  However, those unwilling to wait can satisfy
themselves with "American Extremists."


"THE FUTURE DOES NOT COMPUTE": ONE AUTHOR'S IMAGE OF THE INFERNO

In 1984 the pungent Lewis Lapham wrote a parable about the age
of high tech wrapped around the story of the Turkish sacking of
Constantinople in 1453. ". . . the Byzantine emperor Constantine
Palaeologus, accompanied by priests and a choir of the faithful,
made a solemn embassy to the church of Saint Theodosia to pray to
the martyr whose relics were believed to contain the powers that
subsequent generations have learned to attribute to the hydrogen
bomb [or the computer.]  Having assigned his kingdom to the bones
of a saint, the emperor died the next morning with those few
of his followers who took the trouble to meet the Turks on the
city walls.  Most of the emperor's subjects chose to remain in one
of the city's churches, trusting to the miracles of religion
rather than to the force of their own courage and arms.  When the
Turks broke down the doors of Saint Sophia, they found 10,000
people earnestly praying in a sanctuary sweet with the smell
of incense and fear."

The Turkish story lent itself, he wrote, to the mania surrounding
high tech, the desire to put oneself blindly in the trust of a
totem -- the computer chip.  If a school administrator is shown to
order computers for a few classrooms, the students are
automatically deemed educated. If the business guru utters any
"holy words" that rhyme with "onics" or "echnics," the unwashed
recipient of the wisdom is "ushered into paradise."

It has been a source of continued aggravation to Crypt Newsletter
to find that this type honest, lacerating appraisal and criticism
of the cult of information comes only from outsiders to it. Painfully,
there has never been a corresponding shortage of Alvin Tofflers or
like-minded lieutenants. Crypt suspects this probably has something
to do with the reality that most people in computing who are capable of
writing with some degree of acumen on the subject are so in fear of
being reduced to a gaberlunzie by the wrath of a patron or boss that
they can never see clear to take on such a project.

This brings us to Stephen L. Talbott's "The Future Does Not Compute:
Transcending the Machines In Our Midst" (O'Reilly & Associates).
Talbott is an editor for O'Reilly and as an insider he's done
such a commendable job that he will never again have to worry about
being in the bibliographies of the Nick Negroponte's of the world.

"Does Not Compute" is a considered discussion that bravely
publishes crushers like "our rush to wire the world will some day be
seen to have spawned a suffering as great as the world's greatest
dictators." Presented only as one nugget from as thorough a book as
DNC, Crypt imagines the sentence bugging typical Net surfers mightily.
Of course, the easily bugged aren't this book's audience.  For that
matter, neither are the  oceans of lip-readers found on on-line
services.

However, DNC is a pearl of great price. Talbott's vision of a
future where not firmly coming to grips with computing technology
as it relates to actual need and essential human concerns results
in being communally roasted slowly in the pit for it can already be
seen in many areas of American society, particularly corporate culture.
"A global electronic culture can, in one sense or another, bring about
a union of peoples," Talbott writes. "The question is whether this
union only offers a less visible . . . communal dissociation . . ."



NCSA VIRUS PREVENTION CON '96: ASSORTED COMMENTS

At a recent meeting of computer security gurus in Washington,
D.C., one prominent anti-virus software developer and researcher
surprised competitors by claiming the industry and its products
would have trouble remaining afloat in the next five years. Too much
time had been poured into designing software to detect thousands of
computer viruses that existed only in research labs or the hands of
a few obscure hackers. Users had been sold on the idea that only numbers
mattered. The more crazily named computer viruses claimed
detected, the better the software.  However, a funny thing had
happened on the way to this goal. Instead of technology developing
to improve performance, programs had become harder -- even an
annoyance -- to use, less effective, slower.

Joe Wells, the keeper of the computer virus WildList presented
these claims in an interesting paper published at the National
Computer Security Association's Virus Prevention conference on
April 2.

Called: "Reality Check: Stalking the Wild Virus," the paper
begin with three questions that were quite critical of current trends
in the industry.

1. Has the anti-virus industry done users a major disservice?
YES, wrote Wells. It did itself a similar disservice by pouring to
much time, effort and money into products that could be smaller
faster, more useful and -- better.

2. Is the industry trapped in a mire of its own making?
YES, again, said Joe.  "Having trouble staying afloat," he writes
sardonically.  The numbers game of viruses has created a mire
that has ensnared vendors, users, product reviewers - but it
was created by vendors.

3. Can the a-v industry handle what's ahead?

"NO WAY" wrote Wells!  Not unless major changes were instituted.

Wells explained that about five years Central Point and Symantec
kicked off a numbers game for virus detection and that it evolved
into marketing claims prominently displayed on store boxes for the
purpose of hyping products.

The spiral went out of control with most vendors following suit
even though it was known in the early part of the decade that
only a small percent of known computer viruses were in the wild.

Further, Wells started up the WildList to put some kind of
scientific sense and systematology into computer virus incidence
reporting.

Wells maintains that no viruses have become common going straight
from virus exchange BBSes to international threat.  Further, he
argued, the current institutions for tracking and solution by
vendors is appropriate for the way viruses _do_ emerge in the wild.

The problem arises, he continued, when vendors were and are faced
with the decision of trying to cover all potential viruses - all
known viruses, he calls it - from virus exchanges or Internet sites.

The choice to cover all known viruses has put products into the mire.
As exceptions, Wells wrote that IBM's memory resident virus filter
only concentrates on common viruses and that a component of the Norton
Anti-virus TSR has discarded signatures, too.

Wells writes that "reviewers tend to force developers to respond by
proclaiming that products that don't detect some new advanced
polymorphic virus must have incompetent research departments.

"Interestingly, I was recently taken aback when one reviewer told me
why he includes such zoo viruses [weird examples never expected to
be in the wild like Cruncher or Uruguay].  He said that this was
the only way he could differentiate products.  It was the only
way he could rate them."

One of the final notes of the paper is that product developers
should "stop wasting time on this useless numbers game."

Surprisingly, during the presentation Wells never really got around
to covering everything in the paper.  Quite a few people started
asking questions about the methodology that went into WildList virus
reporting. The discussion bogged down and chose to focus on the
unusual: freak appearances in the wild of the Lehigh virus traced
to an anonymous crazy laboring to place it on a public library PC
in the Philippines every three months, like clockwork.

Also on hand at the NCSA Con was the head of Microsoft's Word
development arm.  Presented as a member of the Anti-virus Product
Developer's Consortium during the conference keynote meeting,
Crypt almost laughed out loud when the Microsoft man exclaimed,
"I don't know anything about computer viruses."

A number of real anti-virus product developers present at the
meeting seemed plainly bugged by the Microsoft employee and
began questioning him in an increasingly hostile manner.  Most
of the queries revolved around the accusation that Microsoft
was making it difficult or impossible to write disinfection
routines for Word macro viruses by refusing to relinquish sufficient
detail on the structure of Word documents.  If the line of questioning
had been allowed to proceed, the anti-virus interlocutors would have
doubtless disemboweled the man from Microsoft. However, the NCSA
stepped in and administered some diplomatic balm by suggesting the
conversation be carried on elsewhere.

In further news and idiosyncrasy, the NCSA found itself awkwardly
positioned on sale of Rune Skardhamar's "Virus Detection and
Elimination" book. For those who remember, "VD&E," contains
computer viruses, some of which appear to have been cribbed from
the casebooks of the virus-writing group, phalcon/SKISM.
Convention speakers, once they noticed, found the sale of the
book . . . indiscreet. Apparently, the book's title was sufficiently
rational to avoid arousing suspicion and the NCSA placed it in their
convention bookstore before reading closely.

About a week or so after the convention, Ken Bechtel of NCSA said
that the offending volume had been dropped from the organization's
bookstore.




THE ENDLESS RIVER OF MAIL ORDER H/P/A/C/V AND YOU

Crypt Newsletter is never surprised to receive mail catalogs
from eccentrics, fringe characters and victims of frank mental illness.
In fact, Crypt Newsletter welcomes such trash, finding it more
stimulating reading than the usual professional-looking paper from
politicians, the pharaohs of industry and wealth, assorted yuppie
trinket direct mail pamphleteers and Web browser demonstration
diskettes and/or ad blurbs for Netcom, America On-Line and CompuServe.

And so it's also diverting to see yet another enterprising
bulletin board system operator devoted to "anarchy" choosing to
get down to brass tacks by stuffing the sham  of "Information wants
to be free" and printing his own "I'm a menacing weirdo so look
what I can do"-type files into hard copy for a few slices of pie
at the plate of Mammon.

In Hurst, Texas, the enigmatically named "The Information Center"
forgoes the usual orthodoxy of the CD-ROM of superficially
menacing looking shovelgoods. Instead, the new information vendors
opts for self-published pamphlets and memo sheets.

Crypt excerpts a handful of the more interesting cliches-as-titles:

15. FREE LONG-DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS  "Change a Radio Shack
tone dialer into a [1994 Red Box] . . . " $8.00

17. MONITOR CELLULAR TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS ". . . Listening
to cellular phone conversations is a lot of fun . . . You will
hear people talking about sex, you will hear drug dealers
making deals . . . IT IS UNLAWFUL TO MONITOR CELLULAR
TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS . . . if caught . . . "  $5.00

73. COKES AND CASH!!  "Obtain as many [free] sodas and change
as you like!  FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLLY [SIC]!" $5.00

[Hammer not included.]

90. MAKE A COMPUTER DESTROYING DISK "Detailed instructions
on how to make a computer destroying disk . . . Their computer
will melt!" $5.00

[Optional propane torch not included.]

103. THE ASSASSIN BOX  "It is made to scare or hurt your enemy
by sending a shock of electricity right down his ear . . .
he will get a very bad shock! Do Not Do This!" $6.00 cheap

125. CIA BRAINWASHING  $7.00

The usual disclaimers concerning freedom, unusual entertainments
and the unassailable verities of scientific research -- in style
reminiscent of recitation in the high, piping voice of a small
child -- are peppered throughout the catalog.

Since 1992, Crypt has noticed a big upswing in the merchandising of
what, for want of a better description, might satirically be dubbed
"high school truant terrorist orthodoxy."  The surge has converged
precisely with pandering government oligarchs, their ambitious
fluglemen in the mainstream media and concerned hand-wringers to
ensure menacing-appearing, trivial anarchy files will remain a niche
growth industry for the remainder of the decade.




MARS ATTACKS: LIQUOR IN THE FRONT, POKER IN THE REAR OF THE
FLYING SAUCER ACCORDING TO NATIONAL LABS WEAPONS GURU IN
"WASHINGTON BABYLON"


"The truth is out there.  Trust no one."

                      --- currently popular Friday evening
                      bromides taken from US primetime TV



In book stores now, Alexander Cockburn and Ken Silverstein's "Washington
Babylon" (Verso) is a savagely written expose of the carbuncle of naked
avarice, swindle, institutionalized deceit and brain disease that is US
politico-military leadership in the last decade and a half.

Making a star appearance is national weapons laboratory non-lethal
weapons guru John Alexander who is described as something of a
demonical lunatic.

Crypt Newsletter readers will remember Alexander from a February 1994
article entitled "Non-lethal Weapons: Quark, Elisabeth Kubler-Ross
& Charm."

Excerpted from it:

John Alexander's name crops up infrequently as Los Alamos National
Laboratory's director of non-lethal weapons programs.

In mainstream media sources like the Los Angeles Times, he has
occasionally appeared delivering reasonable sounding statements
about the suitability of non-lethal weaponry [glue guns, sonic
bombardment designed to induce loss of bowel control and emesis,
microwave brain melt, laser blinding, etc.] in international
peace-keeping.

However, a there is another side to Alexander which has been covered
in Crypt and now in "Washington Babylon."

For example, in 1980 Alexander wrote that 'there are weapons systems
that operate on the power of the mind and whose lethal capacity has
already been demonstrated' [in] 'The New Mental Battlefield: Beam
Me Up, Spock,' Military Review, Dec. 1980 . . . In that side-splitter,
Alexander addressed out-of-body experiences, psychokinesis, and
telepathic behavior modification. 'There is sufficient concern about
psychic intrusion to cause work to begin on countermeasures such as
bioenergy detectors,' he advised . . . 'The information presented here
will be considered by some to be ridiculous since it does not conform
to their view of reality, but some people still believe the world is
flat.'"

Alexander's background, self-described, is that of a mercenary and
"thanatologist" who earned a doctorate under Dr. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross,
an academic who gained a great measure of popular repute for her
writings on the psychology of death.

Alexander is also credited as a "Special Forces A-Team commander
in Thailand . . . and a [student of] meditation in Buddhist
monasteries . . ."

A 1993 edition of the Albuquerque Journal credited Alexander
as the organizer of a national conference in Santa Fe for
"researching reports of ritual abuse, near-death experiences, human
contacts with extra-terrestrial aliens and other so-called 'anomalous
experiences.'"

In October of the same year, Alexander popped up in an issue
of the Australian new age magazine, Nexus. According to the magazine,
Alexander was a captain in  the infantry in 1971 and went diving
in the Bimini Islands searching for the lost continent of Atlantis.
"He was an official representative of the Silva mind control
organization and a lecturer on protocataclysmic [?] civilization . . .
[he helped] perform ESP experiments with dolphins."

As s read that contains more savagely critical put-downs and character
slurs than a whole year of Crypt Newsletters, "Washington Babylon"
recounts all this and more including Alexander's belief -- expressed
in the previous Albuquerque Journal article -- that aliens have been
diddling American women.



MITNICK ENACTS PLEA BARGAIN

In July 1995, Crypt reported hacker Kevin Mitnick had bargained
his infamous cross-country hacking and media jaunt earlier that year
into a sentence that would commit him to about eight months in prison,
according to John Yzurdiaga, his attorney. The legendary hacker was
to plead guilty to possessing stolen cellular phone numbers, one of twenty
three federal charges - all concerning cellular phone fraud - against him.
The remaining charges were to be dropped.

On Monday, April 22, Mitnick enacted his plea bargain, admitting to
illegally possessing cellular telephone programming numbers and
violating conditions of his probation.

Mitnick was on probation from a hacking conviction in 1988.

In return, the U.S. Attorney's office agreed to drop 22 other fraud
charges against him stemming from an indictment handed down in
Raleigh, N.C., in February of 1995.

However, U.S. attorney David Schindler said that the dropping of
the fraud charges in North Carolina did not close the case.

Widely reported throughout the media, Mitnick was the target
of a publicized cyber-crusade led by the Internet's well
known Gangster of Love, Tsutomu Shimomura. Shimomura was on the scene
when federal agents arrested Mitnick in Raleigh.

Shimomura, according to media reports and his book, "Takedown"
(Hyperion), had taken up the case as a matter of honor when
Mitnick allegedly broke into his computer in San Diego over
Christmas of 1994.

On hand for the plea were Mitnick's father and grandmother, as well
as two cousins, according to the Los Angeles Times.  "He did a
crime. He did his time," said Reba Vartanian, Mitnick's grandmother.
This in reference to the one year Mitnick has already spent under
arrest while awaiting case resolution and sentencing.

Mitnick remains in jail at the Los Angeles federal Metropolitan
Detention Center.




THE LETTERS PAGE: CRYPT READER WALKS THE LINE SOMEWHERE
DEEP IN THE HEART OF TEXAS


Crypt:

Good to see your bird's eye view of reality hasn't yet been clouded
by advanced age or anything else to which one's bird's eye view of reality
too often succumbs.

Quasi-amusingly, in the last month or so we here deep-inna-hart-a Texas
have been quite troubled by both Natas and Monkey viruses.

It seems that Monkey is coming from the local technical college  --
which in completely irrelevant news, is closely associated
with Chrysler Technologies which itself is the aircraft maint'nence
depot of for the Sultanate of Brunei. Natas virus is coming from the
local junior college.  However, the big university is squeaky clean
because Jayzuss died onna crawss so that the faculty and
students alike could be pompous and wealthy. They, of course, could
never be bothered by mere viruses,  binary or otherwise.   Unfortunately,
they haven't the slightest concept of data security, either.

Paradoxically, out of this grows my latest and much-needed employment
campaign.

I've been listening to Johnny Cash far, far too much lately.


Cory in Waco, Texas

[Crypt replies:  Proximity to Baylor is making you crabby.  We recommend
wearing a Faraday cage on your head while going virus punching until you
become fully acclimated to the vibes of Baylor brethren.]


ANKLE-BITER #3,421
==================


Dear Crypt:

Can you send something on virus creation and hex editing? I am too
lazy to read books.

The Goof, somewhere in Malaysia

[Try GAO Hacker Information Source at 1-202-512-6240.]


EN PASSANT
==========

Crypt:

Pas de questions . . . juste pour dire un ptit bonjour en
passant . . .

Pierre Gladu



CEASE LEFT WING RANTING
=======================

["GAO report on hackers breaks wind" was also published in Computer
underground Digest.  The following came to Crypt in response to it.]

Response to CUD #8.48: GAO hacker report: selling wind

You recently quoted something called the "Crypt Newsletter" on the
subject of computer-related yellow journalism & governmental
scare-mongering on the threat to national security from "hackers".

While I certainly am concerned about the characterization of "hackers"
as the lepers of the 1990s, I am very disappointed that CUD would
publish such a blatantly partisan, left-wing rant, as news.  Do you
intend CUD to become a forum for left-wing demagogues?  I should hope
that you will continue to provide a balanced forum for discussing issues
of interest to all of us in the Net community, and that you will in
future at least insert a disclaimer before reprinting material of
such material.  Otherwise, CUD will cease to be a forum
for intramural discussion of serious issues, and instead become merely
a mirror of the moderators' apparently left-wing political views.
What a shame, indeed.

I am a conservative, and I would like to point out to your
readership that it is a left-wing, liberal Democratic Administration
which has foisted the entire Clipper/Capstone/EES thing on us, and
which has consistently violated the rights of individuals and groups
in their quest to establish the Nanny State (Waco, Ruby Ridge, etc.).
In fact, Republicans in the House & Senate have been vociferous in both
opposing EES and in watering down the more heinous provisions of Mr.
Clinton's so-called "anti-terrorism" legislation.  The very
sinister Filegate incident, which is far beyond any "enemies list" kept
by the Nixon Administration, clearly shows the arrogance of liberals
who think that government (i.e., themselves) always know best, and
that their good intentions render them above the law.

Remember, Chuck Colson went to jail for possessing one (1) FBI "raw"
file; the Clinton White House had at least 408!

>No one except an obscure lunatic named T. K. Jones in the Reagan
>administration really thought that either U.S. generals or their Soviet
>counterparts would call down the wrath of 10,000 nuclear warheads.

Whoever wrote this must be either extremely stupid or willfully ignorant.
Weapons are made to be used, and the strategic arsenals of both the
U.S. & the U.S.S.R./Russia, while serving as a deterrent against a
general conventional war, are indeed capable of being launched if
National Command Authority so decides.  All one has to do is look at the
Cuban Missile Crisis or the Soviet's panicky launching of Project
RYAN during the 1980s to see that there was (and still is, in my opinion)
a real danger of unleashing Armageddon.  That's why SDI was, and
continues to be, as issue of vital import.

In closing, I would like to compliment CUD for providing a (generally)
balanced and informative resource on public policy issues such as Internet
regulation. While it is very easy to criticize from the peanut gallery, I
hope that my comments and suggestions are received not as churlish
sniping, but as advice from a devoted reader who only wishes to assist
in making CUD that much more appealing to us all.


Roland Dobbins, Bell Atlantic Network Integration
Consulting Services Group


-=The Crypt Newsletter welcomes thoughtful mail from readers at
crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu. Published letters may be edited for length
and clarity or anonymized to protect the naive from themselves.=-



REACHING CRYPT NEWSLETTER


Send software, books, subscription orders ($10.00/year) to:

                George Smith
                Crypt Newsletter
                1635 Wagner St.
                Pasadena, CA 91106

E-mail: crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu or 70743.1711@compuserve.com


CRYPT NEWSLETTER HYPERTEXT

If you're reading this, you don't have it.

 Crypt Hypertext can be registered through Compuserve's
 on-line SWREG service.

 To purchase a copy of Crypt Hypertext through your CompuServe account
 simply use the GO menu and enter the keyword: SWREG. You will
 be presented with a menu to identify your geographic location.
 When prompted to search the software database enter the number:
 # 9228 or the name CRYPT NEWSLETTER HYPERTEXT V. 1.0 and provide
 the requested information.

 You will receive a copy of Crypt Hypertext through US Mail.

 Operating Systems - DOS, WINDOWS

 Cost: $30.00 + $4.00 shipping and handling in US, Canada and Mexico.
              + $8.00 shipping and handling worldwide.

 The database contains not only Crypt Newsletter 1992 - 95
 but also a great deal of additional material and unpublished notes.
 Where appropriate, additions have also been made to old
 issues and articles to provide current perspective and background.

 The database also contains a keyworded glossary and extensive
 subject index spanning the length and breadth of the newsletter.
 Cut and paste any information to your customized specification.

 In the database you'll find comprehensive stories, tutorials
 and news on:

 --the computer virus underground and virus-writers

 --the anti-virus industry

 --on-line culture and sociology

 --book reviews of current titles in security

 --annals of computer crime & computer virus spread

 --virus descriptions and history

 --walkthrough simulations, imagery and displays - aural and visual -
   from computer viruses and controversial virus-making software
   toolkits

 --discussion of legal issues with regard to computer viruses and
   related computer crime

 --extensive companion material for the author's book, "The Virus
   Creation Labs"

 --review of the mainstream media: the shams and scams reported as
   real news. Take a skeptic's look at the information highway!

   The Crypt Newsletter database is also extensible.  Future
   hypertext issues, distributed through CIS forums, can easily be
   copied to the database's directory on your home computer and
   seamlessly integrated into the collection.


   The complete index of topics 1992 - 96 is on the Crypt News
   Web page:

                 http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt



                CRYPT HYPERTEXT ORDER FORM
---------------------------------------------------------
By Mail:

Return this form along with your remittance to:

COMSEC Ltd.
1545 Waukegan Road Suite 2
Glenview, Illinois 60025-2143

Orders:  800-754-8214
Support: 847-729-3565
Fax:     847-729-3575

Questions To: crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu
              70743.1711@compuserve.com

ORDER:

[ ]  ____    Crypt Hypertext(s) @ $30.00 each.

[ ] Regular mail shipping, please add $4.00.

[ ] US Priority Mail, please add $6.00.


Checks and money orders must be in U.S. dollars drawn on a U.S. bank.
Do Not Enclose Cash.

Total enclosed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $______________

Payment by:  [] Check  [] Money Order

SHIP TO:

Name _____________________________________________________

Address 1 ________________________________________________

Address 2 ________________________________________________

City __________________________ State/Province ___________

Zip/Postal Code ________________ Country _________________

Telephone (______)________________________________________




CRYPT ON COMPUSERVE

Crypt Newsletter is now concentrated in two places on Compuserve.
GO INVIRCIBLE brings the user to dedicated Crypt Newsletter message
and file bases.  For example, in addition to the usual issues Crypt
maintains copies of electronic documents like the Federation of
American Scientists' Secrecy & Government Bulletin and the recent GAO
report on hacking incidents at Department of Defense.

GO NCSAFORUM will bring users into the National Computer Security
Association Infosec forum.  This forum features a great deal of specific
and general information on computer security as well as Crypt Newsletter
in its attached file libraries and message bases.


CRYPT NEWSLETTER WORLD WIDE WEB HOME PAGE

You can visit Crypt & The Virus Creation Labs on the
World Wide Web, download back issues and sample a chapter
from VCL!

Set your browser to:

URL: http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt


----------------------------------------------------------------
If you quite enjoy the Crypt Newsletter, editor George Smith's book,
The Virus Creation Labs: A Journey Into the Underground,"  will
really flip your wig. In it Smith unravels the intrigue behind
virus writers and their scourges, the anti-virus software
developers and security consultants on the information highway.

What people are saying about THE VIRUS CREATION LABS:

     "I couldn't stop reading it . . . As hype continues to
     build about security on the Internet and movies like
     _Hackers_ ooze the real hackers into the mainstream arena,
     this book is definite apropos material for the time.
     Read it! A+"
                      ---The Net magazine, February 1996


     "[VIRUS CREATION LABS] is informative and stunningly
     incisive . . . "
                      ---Secure Computing, October 1995

     "George Smith . . . takes a look at the world of virus writers
     and anti-virus software vendors in a style similar to that
     of 'Cyberpunks' -- anecdotal, humorous and revealing . . . a
     lucid and entertaining read."

                      ---Computer Security Journal


     "There are relatively few books on the 'computer underground' that
     provide richly descriptive commentary and analysis of personalities
     and culture that simultaneously grab the reader with entertaining
     prose. Among the classics are Cliff Stoll's 'The Cuckoo's Egg,'
     Katie Hafner and John Markoff's 'Cyberpunk,' and Bruce
     Sterling's 'The Hacker Crackdown.'  Add George Smith's
     'The Virus Creation Labs' to the list . . . 'Virus Creation
     Labs' is about viruses as M*A*S*H is about war!"

                       ---Jim Thomas, Computer underground
                       Digest 7.18, March 5, 1995

     "THE VIRUS CREATION LABS dives into the hoopla of the Michelangelo
     media blitz and moves on to become an engaging, articulate,
     wildly angry diatribe on the world of computer virus writers . . .
     Expert reporting."
                      ----McClatchy NewsWire


-------------------------order form-------------------------

Yes, I want my wig flipped and wish to receive a copy of George
Smith's "The Virus Creation Labs: A Journey Into the Underground"
(American Eagle, ISBN 0-929408-09-8).

   Price: $12.95/copy plus $2.50 shipping per book (add $7.50 overseas)

   NAME: _____________________________________________

   ADDRESS: __________________________________________

   CITY/STATE/ZIP: __________________________________

   Payment method:

   ___ Master Charge

   ___ Money Order

   ___ Check

   ___ Visa

   Credit Card # ___________________________________________

   Expiration date _________________________________________

   Name: ____________________________

   Orders can be taken by voice or fax through regular phone
   number and/or 1-800 number in USA.  COD welcome.

   American Eagle: 1-800-719-4957
                   1-520-367-1621
                   POB 1507
                   Show Low, AZ 85901


Acknowledgments:  This issue Crypt is indebted to the NCSA for
hosting the interesting and informative Virus Prevention Con '96.
Crypt also gives a hearty thanks and tip o' the hat to Glenn Jordan
and S&S International's representatives for hours of avuncular
discussion and a tasty meal in Alexandria, Virginia.

-------------------------------------------------------------
George Smith, Ph.D., edits the Crypt Newsletter from Pasadena,
CA. Media critic Andy Lopez lives in Columbia, SC.

copyright 1996 Crypt Newsletter. All rights reserved.
