

"ON THE LIGHTER SIDE"
By:DUKE

    I seem to be getting a good bit of positive comments on my 
articles and have had requests to do them again.  Well here you go.  
Just to let you know this article is not a tutorial of any kind 
just kind of a wind down relax type.  OK now for the rest......


                      -----Part1-----    
    I guess in the past few months of me learning and moving up 
in my hacking/coding ability I have been running into quite a few 
lamers.  Why are these bastards so annoying?  These people are 
truly little 5 year olds with a computer and bigger vocabulary.  I 
was sitting in a friends chatroom trying to help him get it up and 
running, and some person comes in with a name "Hacker666".  What 
the hell?  Is this supposed to frighten me?  So i instantly asked 
him, "Are you a hacker?"  He replies, "Hell yeah...So don't make me 
mad!"  I then ask him questions, and ask if he can teach me 
anything.  So he starts using HTML to move the text to the center 
of the screen. <ul>.  He brags about that for about 5 minutes.  I'm 
thinking to myself. "When did this guy find a html page found a tag 
with a "STUNNING" effect and decide to call himself a hacker?  I 
then start to annoy him by calling him a "lamer!" and so on.  Well 
then he brings out the big guns!  He tried to run a hostile java 
applet but he didn't even type it right!!! *LOL*  What a loser!  
Then a horrrrible<----(inside joke)thing happens.  Stupid call 
waiting disconnects me and when I log back on he is gone. =(.  But 
later i take a shot at his password. I got it on my 2nd try! It was 
666hacker! hehehehehe.  Now this guy has what i call 
"Hackawannabedrome"!

                      -----Part2-----
 Hey you'll never believe it! I ran into another one!  But this one 
was a little different.  I'm not going to mention names, because 
i'm not sure if i'm totally updated of what happened, but what this 
guy did what just funny.  One night I start getting MSG's from a 
person on my ICQ list.  He is complaining about how someone did him 
wrong earlier.  Well he keeps nagging me and nagging me and then I 
get a MSG from <-OPIC-> saying that the same guy is bugging him too.  
Well to skip all the boring talking back in forth this guy won't 
stop until he does something stupid.  He sends <-OPIC-> a virus 
that didn't even work.  Which then set us up good.  We said we were 
going to tell the authorities that he sent a virus to <-OPIC->.  
Well about 5 minutes later this guy changes his UIN and everything. 
hehehehehe. This guy was just funny!Oh yeah one more thing.  About 
half-way through
this all i said "I heard you were good."  He replies "Yes I am 
good, I almost got busted the other day!"  If your reading this The 
Good Hackers Don't Get Caught! 

                          ----End----

    When will these guys stop?  When will they learn that html 
tags, nukers, email bombs, and so on don't make you a hacker.  You 
have to read take it in and want to be a true one.  These are the 
lazy people of the net.  They have a friend over and e-bomb someone 
or NUKE them from a chat. They get a reaction like Ohhhhh's and 
AHHHHHH's.  It's makes them feel powerful and special.  So they 
keep doing it and keep growing.  There just like those damn bugs in 
Florida or the sand that won't go away after you've been to the 
beach when you shower.  There just there to annoy you and you can't 
get rid of them.  Hehehehe 

GOT LAMER?

