Info about Teddybear (pheer the teddybear) by Bhunji.

This virus is a combination of NetBus, Babylonia and a irc bot. It uses the irc network to upgrade itself and spread. I am also able to steal and run files from infected computers. 
The virus does also contain a new superfast infection technique (that only works on win98).

At first run.
Dropps DLLMgr in SYSTEM dir and executes it.
DLLMgr drops irc.txt that is a debug file (isnt needed but makes it easy to find bugs).
DLLMgr waits until connected using Ras API (a win32 method, Vecnas method does only work
on win95, but i think Vecnas technique is more elite :))
When connected the virus checks if his leader is online, or the God if the leader isnt 
online. It will then ask for a file called script.exe that will update the scriptfile that
the virus uses to parse messages on irc.

After downloading script.exe the bot restarts. It will connect to irc again but this time
with a more advanced scriptfile. It will again look for the leader or god and then ask him 
if he can be his slave. If so the leader will send all other files like infector, 
fileseekers and dropper. If the leader doesnt have place for more slaves he send the virus 
to one of his slaves and the procedure repeats itself. In the current version every virus 
can have 5 slaves. The following structure of viruses is created.


1			^ <- god
2		       / \ <- leader for 3, slave for the god
3		      /   \ <- leader for 4, slave for 2
4		     /     \ <- leader for none, slave for 3

Sometimes (1/20) a new god is created, this makes it impossible to kill the virus by just
kicking the god and make it impossible to use that name. Even i dont know the name of the
new created god but creating a plugin that sends the name encrypted to my mailbox should 
not be very difficult.

As the virus is online and on irc its also possible to send commands,
some of the interesting ones are.

Commands.

As an ordinary user.
DCC script.exe  		<- Download script.exe from infected machine
Do you have place for me?  	<- Try to become a slave

As a slave. (Send a "Do you have place for me?" to a leader to become its slave)
DCC filename			<- Download file filename from system

As a leader. (You become a leader after 'working' a while as a slave)
run filename			<- run file filename
No, ask name			<- make name the new leader 
join channel			<- make slave join channel
leave channel			<- make slave leave channel
msg name message		<- make virus send message to name
slaves				<- Which are the worms slaves
recursive			<- Send a recurcive message to all viruses below leader
                                   (makes it very easy for AV's to delete all viruses)

As Bhunji (ultimate god :))
DCC filename			<- Get any file on infected computer
cd dir				<- Set directory
dir mask			<- list files in dir (cd dir) that looks like mask
restart				<- Make the virsu reconnect to server
god				<- Who is the worms god
leader				<- Who is the worms leader
nick name			<- change name of slave
+ all leader messages

As a leader (or Bhunji) you are also able to DCC files to the slave. The slave will then run 
the DCCed file. Script.asm has detailed info on how to become a slave, send files and so on.
By using 'recursive' massupdates become very easy. So does counting infections. You can also
DoS a irc user by making all viruses send him/her a message.

Speedy infector.
I thank TWD for his text about applog.ind. 

By using the file applog.ind in the windows\applog directory its possible to get 'all' .exe files on the system. Read the attached .htm file (stolen from fravias site) for more info.
It has two bugs though so look at my code too.

What does the file in X do
/dropper
dropper.asm
Is the file that is attached to all infected files. Droppes DLLMgr in system dir and starts
it.

/FileSeeker
resident.asm
Writes the name of all opened files that hasnt been found before to a file called 
listfile.txt. Hooks the IFSMgr to get the filenames.

speedy.asm
Uses applog.ind to find filenames. When a filename is found the file is opened
and resident.exe does the rest.

/infector
infector.asm
Uses listfile.txt to get filenames, will then infect the files with the dropper.

/identd
identd.asm
You shouldnt really use this, just added to show how a identd server works.

/htmldropper
dropper.html
This code is in ircbot.asm too, shows better how i drop a exe file from a html file

/bin 
Binary version of virus.

Info about the virus in oldschool style ;)))

Superfast infector, fast infector, win32 ircworm abilities, win9x virus behavior, NetBus 
behavior (steal file, run program), spreads over irc and win32 exe files, upgradable, 
realtime two way communication.

The power of realtime two way communication should not be forgotten, this togetter with 
upgradability is a very dangerous weapon. In the wrong hands this virus is the most
dangerous software ever written because its possible to make it work just like NetBus and it 
does not need to be spreaded by a person. This is not possible with Babylonia as there is no
way for the virus to send data, only recieve. Even if it was it would be very difficult to control just one computer.

What is missing?
A DoS tool. The recursive command plus the run command makes it extremly easy to turn the 
virus into a DDoS tool if i could only find a DoS tool that is small enough and uses the 
commandline.

No possibilty for modules to send messages over IRC. It's easy to add this though, I didnt 
as i didnt need it. Locate all offsets using ThreadSendString and change them to a pointer 
to a memory mapped file, then the modules can write to this mem to send messages over irc)

Many more virus modules. Modules that send the virus over mail, polymorphs the dropped 
files, infects other file formats etc etc etc

Many more NetBus modules. Modules that steal passwords, open/close the CDrom, spies on 
keyboard input, change mouse cursor etc etc etc

Greets sorted by random()
Asmodeus	Hahaha, 5 buggar i en procedur
Vecna		I have found an other problem with Babylonia ;)))
Darkman		Maibe jou cann korrect my speling erros in thix tekst to? :)
Benny		Our next virus will create some ph33r ;)
MrSandman	Do you have a burger for me?
Spydick		You and me has some serious problems :)))
Prizzy		A 20k big asm virus, you are the god man :))
Kamoselien	Buhnkij is here :)
IceMan		I bow for your great power :)
Clau		You should spend less time working and more time coding :)


/Bhunji(@swipnet.se)