Spyda's Editorial

Welcome to Final Chaos, the Ultimate Chaos teams electronic zine. The zine
that was originally planned to be released way back in August is now finally
here and we all hope you enjoy reading it as much as we enjoyed compiling it.
Before I carry on, I believe people deserve an explanation as to what happened
regarding the zine and our future.

A long long time ago, in a world far far away, there was a group of people who
were all members of a virus team called Ultimate Chaos, these members were all
thirsty for knowledge concerning anything VX related and wanted to contribute
to the VX scene. 
Ultimate Chaos were originally (when I first joined) a small collection of
virus related people, a trader, two researchers and a graphix guy who was
learning how to code (me). Then UC merged with 3WD who were a group of self
proclaimed hackers. Basically, this didn't work out and all of the 3WD members
ending up leaving due to a "difference of opinion" (3WD were, and still are,
led by a self proclaimed "anarchist" if you can work that one out :)..)
UC then went very quiet for a while as we sorted out what direction we wanted
to go in and a few new members joined (Gigabyte, MidNyte and PaX). This is
how things stayed for a while and, as time went on, we got bigger and bigger
(some will say too big). 
Alot of coders were applying for membership to us and getting it, we had an
enormous ammount of members and releasing an e-zine seemed like a logical
thing to do. Zine material was coming to us in big quantities and everything
was going fine, with various press/media coverage in our favour etc, until the
enormous ammount of members became a problem. 
People were feeling unsettled and didn't know where they stood, and to cut
things very short alot of members left us because of this. Then came the new
UK laws concerning viruses... As many of you know, UC is mainly UK based and
these new laws meant some serious changes had to take place if we wanted to
continue doing what we wanted to.
After a large discussion with the UK admins, it was decided that we would
release this zine as a "one-off", the first - and last virus related zine to
come from Ultimate Chaos. It was also decided that after the zine had been
released, UC would change their name to UCSI (Ultimate Chaos Security
International) and concentrate more on security related ideas and programs. 
After this meeting, the work on the zine stopped for a while as we thought
about our plans for the future and got more things finalized and everything
went very quiet with us. Then we realized that the zine must be released and
work started on it again, with several problems with the viewer etc coming at
a *very* late stage.... but, here it is, Final Chaos, finally released and
looking very nice if I do say so myself :)

I hope that clears things up a bit more and I hope you enjoy the zine,

Spyda, Final Chaos editor.
