Introduction to The Final Chaos Electronic Magazine

 Welcome to the electronic magazine from The Ultimate Chaos Virus Team.
As you may or may not know the team was founded on Tuesday the 17th of
February in 1998 as a purely virus collecting team. There was never any ideas
to start coding or even release a zine. This step forward is if anything just
as much as surprise fer me as it is fer everyone else.. In case you've never
heard of the team allow me to explain who we are. The team consists of virus
writers, researchers, collectors a main administration squad and unusual fer
an underground team - a public relations squad. It is through these squads
within the team that we run our operation and maintain our involvement within
the different aspects of the entire viral scene.

 What's been happening? Well, since the founding of the team there has been a
lot of activity in and around the virus scene. The more memorable events
include - on the virus side: the upspring of Win95.CIH.*, W2000M.Melissa, The
first ever Coral Draw virus, mIRC worms and Spanska's Win95.ska. On the scene
development side of things there's been various other groups founded such as
Technological Illusions, CIH, JVS and SOS to name just a few.

 The Ultimate Chaos Virus Team is a team of virus orinated personnal.
Our current members list stands as follows (more detail can be found under
members information).

   Rhape79, Roadkil, [PaX], Spyda, MidNyte, Clau,
   DX100h, f0re, The_Might, Morphine and ElectricEye.

 What can you expect from this first issue? 

I should point out that since the beginning of this zine the team has in fact
changed it's name to UCSI (Ultimate Chaos Security International) - therefore
we feel that we should finish this zine as a virus team, but as of late 1999
and early 2000 we will be moving more and more towards security issues and
applications although we will retain an element of the VX scene in the team.
We will continue to trade and some of us will continue to code malware
although unlike most of the malware out there our's will be documented and
will follow on the lines that we set out in the Pr0ject Zer0. And as you can
guess I will continue my work wilth Pr0ject Zer0 and thanks to much feedback
I can see what the VX scene is ready to accept and what will fall dead.

 Totally unreleated to VXing - I'm going to take this moment to meantion that
UCSI has formed a small SETI@Home group and that anyone who's VX (from authors
to collectors or even just the merely interested) can join the group and help
us analyse data from the SETI@Home servers in the massive worldwide hunt fer
EBE's in space. Details can be found at http://www.ultimatechaos.org/seti.html
: Please note you will need to download the SETI@Home software from their
server if you do not already have it.

 I hope at least some of you people out there will find our zine of interest
and enjoy reading it as we did in making it..

Peace,
  Rhape79  [Ultimate Chaos '99]
