
        --==< Why I write viruses (and how not to stop me) >==--

                         By MidNyte[UC], May 1999


     (A brief background for further discussion aimed at those who despise
          virus authors and/or think it is immoral to write viruses.)


   I  write  viruses  as  a  challenge.   I  like  programming,  and   writing
spreadsheet  and database  software etc (like  I  used to have  to in college)
bores me.  The idea of  a little program that can  make a copy of  itself even 
when watched by software specifically designed to stop it intrigues me.  I try 
to  write  something that can evade  this  software.  The  developers  of  the 
software have a team of full-time,  highly paid programmers working constantly 
to stop viruses,  and here's me,  someone who  has hardly programmed at all in 
comparison,  working out of my  house in  my spare  time and  actually beating 
their software. That's a challenge, it's a buzz when it works, that's why I do
it.  I do not spread or encourage the spreading of my  (or any other) viruses.
I have no  interest in  spreading my  creations to see  them in the wild-list,
I have no interest  in causing damage to  anyone's computer,  I write only for 
my own self-recognition.  The only other recognition I  would like  is that of 
the virus writing  scene in general,  but it's not  the reason I write.  Maybe 
it's a strange hobby,  but I shouldn't  be stopped from doing it  just because 
it's strange in someone else's opinion.

   I don't have to  justify what  I do to my  computer to anyone, at least,  I 
shouldn't.  I paid for it, it's mine, I can destroy it with a hammer if I feel 
like it.  If  I  want to  write  a  virus on  my  computer,  or even infect my 
computer,  I will.  It's nobody else's business, and I don't have to listen to 
people whose interest in the  field exceeds their knowledge.  That  means you, 
Joe  Public.    You've  never  even  bothered   to  notice  that  there  is  a 
psychological  difference between  writing and  distributing viruses,  yet you 
still presume to judge me and my actions. I welcome any reasonable discussion, 
provided of  course I  have the  time and  you know what you're talking about. 
All I seem to get is name-calling and ranting.

   I don't break  any laws,  I don't have  any wish to spread viruses,  but if 
someone  who shares my  enthusiasm for them wants to see my source code,  they 
can.  I can  teach what I  can to anyone  who wants  to  learn,  without being 
responsible for their motives.  I will not encourage people to spread viruses, 
but if  they  do,  I will  not presume  to lecture them.  If I  let people see 
anything it's  only after  they have agreed  to  be  responsible for their own 
actions.  I am not a baby-sitter,  I  will not  hide things away to  stop them 
falling into the wrong hands.  The 'wrong hands' are responsible for their own 
actions,  provided  they  have been  warned of  the  danger.  I  also actively 
encourage  newcomers to the field to release their work through E-zines rather 
than  just release  viruses into the wild.  (This forum (Project Zero) has yet
to be evaluated fully by the anti-virus community)

   In the end,  you won't  stop me  by telling  me what to do.  If you want to 
stop me,  you must  understand  why I do it,  then convince  me that I'm doing 
wrong.  I don't  think I am,  and until  I'm convinced by  a well thought-out, 
rational  argument  by you,  I'm not likely  to change  my mind.  Just in case 
you're  unsure,  name-calling  doesn't even  come close  to  being  a rational 
argument.  The lack of reason and lack of willingness to listen from your side 
of the argument  indicates uncertainty.  I am certain I'm  in the right, and I 
am declaring so now,  calmly,  reasonably,  ready to listen  to your arguments 
and in public.  There is no justification any more in pleading ignorance of my 
views,  they  are here for  all in  black and white.  If you are sure  of your 
views, discuss them, don't dictate them, and I will listen.

   If you  want to be heard by  virus writers,  you should  understand  why we 
write them in  the first place,  and  not just assume that  we're in  the same 
league as  people who  destroy public property for 'something to do'. If after 
reading  this you're  thinking that  that's exactly  what we are, and that I'm 
missing your point,  then I  suggest you start again from the  top impartially 
this time,  you're exactly  the type of  person I'm addressing.  I for  one am 
perfectly willing to help  stem the  flow of viruses into the wild, but I will 
not give  up my  hobby.  Every time  I'm called  names by  someone  who hasn't 
bothered  to  try  and understand my point first,  I get  a  little closer  to 
giving up trying to explain myself altogether...  why should  I try to justify 
my  actions  which I  believe  to be  innocent to  someone who's  not going to 
listen? Why bother?.  Lack  of  communication  is  the  most  common  cause of 
conflict,  I'm trying to keep that from happening now.  If you want to be able 
to say you've done  everything in your power to 'talk sense'  into the authors 
of viruses,  you need to do more  than has been done to date.  By dictating to 
people who are anonymous,  without the willingness  to listen reasonably,  you 
almost daring people to do their worst.  You've said we are scum, you've tried 
to have us hunted  down and locked up,  so what  would we  lose by writing and 
spreading a  destructive  virus? Only our morals, but then, you keep saying we 
don't have any..... Think it through.

                             - MidNyte [Ultimate Chaos Security International]


  As always, I welcome ANY feedback, good or bad, as long as it is reasonable.

   midnyte01@excite.com | www.ultimatechaos.org/midnyte | surf.to/midnyte
