Date: 10 Nov 99 00:09:28 JVT 

From: foxz of NoMercyVirusTeam 

To:darknode,bsl4,cicatrix,spooky,knowdeth,asterix_zine,tally,
support@cakraweb.com,system@hackerlink.or.id,brianjan,darkman,
crazyman@usa.net,webmaster@mikrodata.co.id

Subject: Bad news from NVT 
X-MSMail-Priority: High 
X-Priority: 1 
X-Mailer: USANET web-mailer (M3.3.1.96) 
Mime-Version: 1.0 
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII 
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable 

to all my brother..
i have a bad news for you all 
1, i decide to retire from VX.
2, perhaps crazyman do the same thing.
3, leader position now on slagehammer or knowdeth.

why we decide to retry? a gewd question.
1, we have no contibution to VX about 3-4 month earlier, since case of melissa and deleted page on virtualave (nomercy.virtualave.net)
2, we change our OS to real *nix no more windows installted on our PC.
3, we tired made page that easily delete by freak admin.
4, i have no more idea to write virus, we already migrate to linux and was decide to make contribute for linux (of coz we now dare to use our real name, bcoz no illegal for this one).

domain name nomercy.cakraweb.com soon will be gone, i already ask admin of cakraweb.com to delete it.

bye all, we now just monitoring you all keep the infection alive!

oh almost forgot this is the important things :) the greeting. greeting goes to...

cicatrix -- keep VDAT online still need icon from me? contact me bro.
virusbuster -- keep your site to be the portal of virus info.
slagehammer -- i cant forget all you did to me, perhaps i can take "that" back soon.
knowdeth -- we now just monitoring
bsl4 -- hello brother, keep an gewd werk
Rhape -- thanks for any help
Darkman, assmblerhead, Duke, yoda, spooky, opic, serialkiller, and all who know me as foxz or know me in real life. -- forgive me if i du wrong to you all.

regard 

foxz of NoMercyVirusTeam
"dont throw your PC out from Windows, but throw the windows out from your P, change to linux!"
