
An Ultimate Chaos Interview 

Victim's Handle: Serialkiller 
UC Rep's Handle: Rhape79 
Date: 22nd March 1999 

Before we begin is there anything you would like to confess? 

01. Who are you, what do you do, what kind of music do you like etc.. and how 
did you get your nick? 

OOOOOOk. :) I炅 a 28 years old man. I炅 an educator for disabled children. I 
will get my nick from my freinds. I have from them the most cracks and 
serialnumbers from programs. From this time up they call me "Serialkiller" 
-->that압 why i get my nickname :) crazy eh ? 

02. Where are you from? 

I live in Germany ------->Octoberfest :) 

03. How would you describe yourself (eg. mad, antisocial, above average 
intelligence etc..)? 

Eh That압 a cool question Rhape :) hehehe 
i describe myself part mad, social, spontaneous,crazy :) I think that압 all ;) 

04. How did you get involved in the VX scene? 

For 3 years viruses have interested me. So I downloaded from the Internet the 
most viruses (from A to Z and from 1 to 0). Then comes the time, where the 
macro viruses have open a new door in the vx scene. At this time i have 
mailcontact to Nightmare Joker (he was my teacher ------>Nightmare at this 
time i would thank you for all). So i created my first macro virus. On time I 
have nightwatch in the army. So i take my computer and create at the night my 
first macro virus (The Fist German Army Macro Virus (TFGAMV)). At this time, i 
was interested more in things viruses. So i joined my first group (The Black 
Angels). But it would no long time get. At one time i see the Codebreakers 
Site in the Net. I write Spo0ky an mail. So, at this time i炅 a proud member 
of the Codebreakers. 

05. Are you part of any VX team, if so which one(s) and fer how long? 

Don앖 luagh -------->I have joined the Codebreakers at the 12/24/97 -->I think 
it was the best christmas gift i have get at this christmas ;) 

06. How many viruses have you written to date, and which do you feel was the 
'best' one? 

I have written 
Macro viruses:ASM viruses:
            
            
            - TFGAMV- The GramReaper Virus
            - Demenz- Cyrus -->The Virus
            - The Time


I think my best was from the macro viruses the "Demenz" virus. 
From the asm viruses was the best "The GramReaper Virus" -->why ?? ---->try 
this ;) : 

http:// 

07. What do you see as the future fer yourself (and your team(s))? 

In the future i will spend more time for me to learn W97 macro viruses and asm 
viruses. Then i will learn more about Linux. And meet me with Evil-E (hey 
brother hope we can make an date next time) :)) For the group i think any from 
us will code more win32 viruses. I think that압 the new generation of viruses. 
They will become more reputation. 

08. What languages do you know? 

I know 
I learn at this time ASM (it압 hard :) ) hehehe 
I have coded in Delphi an smart program (Nasty Tricks) 

09. Are there any viruses in particular which you think were good (eg. great 
survival, stealth, encryption etc..)? 

I think the CIH-virus have made fear under the AV ppl and user. Another virus 
species are the Macro class viruses. I think they are cool viruses too. From 
Landing Camel the Beanhive Java virus make in the german magazines headlines 
:). Java coder have said "in java you can앖 make an virus" -->Landing Camel 
have get it !!! ------>That압 what i love :) Of course i love viruses with 
stealth and encryption technics :). I would learn it in asm too :) 

10. What do you think of viral payloads - and more specifically destructive 
payloads? 

hmmmmm. I think destructive payloads are not good. Each lamer can create an 
virus where format the HDD or erase or delete files. A good payload is to hide 
the virus from most AV Scanner. 

11. Unique question here - Can you describe the perfect virus? 

Wow. Ehhhhh ;) 

To be an perfect virus is: 

- will run under most systems 
- hide for the most AV Scanner 
- have not an destructive payload 
- have stealth and encryption technics 

12. What is your opinion of pro-virus members/groups, and why? 

i think VX groups are cool. Because they will help beginner to learn to code. 
Another good things is the contact to other vx ppl. (on #vir or #virus) to 
change the information. 

13. What is your opinion of anti-virus members/companies, and why? 

Got no knowledge about AV members or groups ---->I only try their programs ;) 

14. If Microsoft offered you a job to work on MSAV - Would you take it? 

nope. They are 2 ways to answer this question: 

- I will help more disabled children (i think that압 my life) 
- I don앖 not so much about other languages ;) 

15. Are there any pro-virus members/groups you'd like to greet? 

sure :) 

- Rhape-->for this interview with me :) thx brother
            - Nightmare Joker-->thx for all
            - Spo0ky-->for the Codebreaker group
            - Evil-E-->wird schon mal mit unserem Treffen klappen ;)
            - Spyda-->see u on #vir :)
            - KnowDeath-->hey, when comes the metaphase magazine out ? :)
            - Nucleii-->l8ter on #vir or #virus :)

    
    16. Are there any anti-virus members/companies you'd like to greet? 
    
    Yep :) hehehe 
    
    A great thanks to Norton Anti Virus -------->it would my life easier to 
    create asm viruses that he can앖 detect ---->and i炅 a beginner of asm ;) 
    that압 hard Peter :) 
    
    17. This is your bit to say what ever you like (announce your next virus, 
    tell us about your team, whatever...) 
    
    At this time i create with Evil an new asm virus. The name of the asm 
    virus is "Outer Limit" ---->I have the idea from the tv movie "Outer 
    Limits". On the payload we create at this time. ----->But one thing is 
    secure --->It will show a message from the tv movie on the display :) 
    More when the virus is ready :) 
    
    Sorry for my bad english ----->i hope everyone can understand what i mean 
    ;-) 
    
    Thank you fer taking the time to do this interview. 
    
    np ---->anytime :) 
    
    Serialkiller[CB] 
