                         Final Notes
                             By
                         Horny Toad


So ends another Codebreakers Zine.  I hope that you enjoyed the
articles in this edition of the mag.  The whole purpose of this
mag is to help the virus student in his studies.  In the future
issues more advanced techniques will be discussed, but we will
never loose sight of the fact that beginners will be entering
the field all the time.  Techniques and virus writing platforms
are also constantly changing.  The most important idea that I
want you to leave with is that you need to understand the basics.
With a solid foundation in basic virus writing, you can branch
off into any field of this incredible lifestyle. Well, I'll stop
with the party line, I feel like I'm running for office or
something.  Just have a great time coding virii and learning
more about manipulating the computer system.

As always, I am accepting articles to be published in future
editions of the Codebreakers.  If you have something to say
or a technique that you would like to teach, by all means
send it to me.  As long as it is not too outrageous I will
include it in the mag. Also, if there is any beginners that
would like to share their experiences with virus writing, I
would really like to share them and put them in the mag.

We are also looking for experienced hackers and virus
writers to join the Codebreakers.  We are a small group of
misfits trying our best to promote the art of virus writing
and hacking.  Our primary goal is the education of the
masses and the discovery of new techniques, while having a
damn good time.  If you think you have what it takes to
become one of us, visit our site at WWW.CODEBREAKERS.ORG.
Seriously, if you are a code wizard and want to join, get in
touch with us.  If you are a newcomer to the fantastic world
of virus writing and think that you have something to offer
us, by all means, get in touch with us.

We are happy to hear from all.

Horny Toad
