

        Hello, world!!

        Hello  everybody and nice to see you again!! I would really, really
 like to thank YOU (yes, you!) for taking the time and download this little
 thingie  I  wrote...  First  let me tell you exactly what the heck are you
 looking at here...

        This  little  (<20K)  article reader is called Smart Article Reader
 and it's version is 1.0. I started writing this thing around 17 Nov. 1998,
 or  something  like  that.  My  lust  for  making a menu reader and a file
 browser  goes  back in 1990 when I had my first encounter with a computer.
 However  the  real  work  started  only now when the SLAM group who kindly
 accepted me to be part of them was working on the issue #5 of the zine. So
 I  decided  to  make  this  e-zine  to  use. However, due to objective and
 obvious  reasons,  we  decided  to make a windows viewer for SLAM together
 with a SVGA DOS viewer. Then I reamained with my viewer and had no use for
 it...  So,  I  had  an idea. Since all the articles on my page are already
 public,  I  will  make  no  harm republishing them under a different look.
 That's when this collection idea emerged...

        Here are the main features of the menu reader:

        - keys in menus: up, down, left, right, pageup, pagedown, home, end
        - hotkeys: Alt+hotkey for popup, and hotkey for menu
        - music in background
        - full pixel-by-pixel mouse support
        - help windows
        - secret password
        - boss screen

        And here are the main features of the text reader:

        - keys: up, down, left, right, pageup, pagedown, home, end
        - full mouse support
        - all infos (percentage, lines read)
        - scrollbar

        Anyway, as far as I am concerned, it looks pretty ok...

        I  would also like to point out that this entire program is written
 in  ASM  and  ASM only, compiled with TASM in 286 small model. However, it
 will  fail  if  the  system  is  not equiped with a math copprocessor. The
 entire  code  is  written  by  me,  except  the  Adlib Tracker, which is a
 freeware  tracker  written  by  SHAYDE/REALITY. I thank this guy a lot for
 releasing  his source to public, since I have no idea about how to make an
 Adlib  Tracker...  The song that you hear was originaly written for C64 by
 Maniacs  of  Noise  and  rewriten  for Adlib by VOID/REALITY. It's name is
 Alloyrun.  Hope  you  like  it. If you don't, press F8 or use the /nosound
 option.  Also,  notice  that  this  little proggy has two timer interrupts
 used,  one for in menu events (like the scrolling text) and one to tick at
 50hz  for  the  Adlib track. This might make it slow down the system under
 Windows  NT,  or at least so I've been told. Anyway, I don't see any point
 in letting this run and switch to other applications...

        The  reason I release this is that I will soon be using it into one
 of  my  most  desirable  projects:  PExIC  (Portable  Executable  Infector
 Creator). This is why all of you are my testers...;-) Hope you don't mind.
 All I am asking is to drop me a short line at:

        lordjulus@geocities.com

        if you find any bug... Actually you can write my almost anything...
 I like receiving e-mail...

        So, happy surfing !!!

                             ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                             ³  Lord Julus - 1999  ³
                             ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

