                        Interview with StealthFork               
                                 (SVAT)
 
 
 1.  Tell us something about you (country, age, whatever else,.. :)

     Well, i'm a 21 years old boy, living in Berlin - Germany.
     Programming is my live. I have no job yet, but i hope i'll
     find some computer-related in the near future.                                 
     I began writing programs on a C64 in Basic. Using an 20 years old
     TV-set and the C64-I. I wrote progs at night, mostly for my mathematic
     homework. :) Later I put all my money together and bought a modem.
     Now i was able to get in touch with the other dudes. We used a terrible 
     configured terminal-server at an university for dialin/telnetting. 
     Now i have a 80486 linux box and enjoy programming.
     [i know its rather old - but i hate all the rich kiddies with their
     expensive P300 systems and who dunno how to program/use it]                 

 2.  Why did you choose the name "Stealthf0rk"?

     Hm...should I say something ?
     Ok...fork() is a system-call on UNIX which creates a new child process.
     Its often used by viruses/worms. 'Stealth' should be clear...           
     Put it together and you'll get an excellent description of what my
     programs do. ;-)   

 3.  How long have you been in the VX scene?
     
     Um...3 or 4 years i think. It was great. In real life most persons
     dislike you and/or beat you. You are alone. With joining the scene
     the other ones respect you. You are someone, you know people who
     think like you. They could be your brothers.

 4.  How long has your group, SVAT, existed? What are SVAT's goals? And how
     many members do you have?
     
     SVAT was 'founded' in 1996. It means 'Special Virii And Trojans' and its
     goal are viruses for non-M$ systems. Now we have Linux under attack,
     but other systems are also welcome.
     We are 4 membaz now. Other UNIX-people with _new_ ideas are welcome,
     for joining and for support.

 5.  What do you think about L*NUX? Why did you choose to code Linux viruses?
     
     Linux is great. All the free OS's are great. You have the whole 
     source-code of the OS. That's all what a VX-dude want to have.
     You can also create virus-test accounts and start your stuff there, you
     won't get any damage on your sys.     
 
 6.  Which programming languages do you know?

     Mostly i write programs in C and/or ASM. But if its needed I also
     use Pascal (hey, there is a great TP-clone on Linux...), Basic, Perl...    
 
 7.  Do you also code M$ based viruses?

     I coded some viruses a few years ago, with simple poly/resident code
     in it. My first own work was a virus which bypassed TBAV-mon. 
     One day my own virus [boot-sector...] crashed my system.I lost all data.
     Without money i decided to install Linux from a friend.

 8.  How do you spread your viruses? :o)

     Urgh...We don't spread our stuff. And we don't want any guy to do it.
     The kick is to write code which can't be detected and which contains
     sth. new. New ideas, new methods, new exploits. That's all we want.
     There are easier ways to /kick persons i dislike. ;)
 
 9.  Which VX groups do you like best? and why?

     Hm...Good question. There are dozens of groups out there.
     They all have a reason to exist since they do a good job.
     My favorite group was Phalcon/Skism with their great zine 40Hex.
     All i know about ASM, Viriis, Anti-Debugging etc. i learned from
     their Mags. Not to top.
     Now we are in touch with some other small hacking/vx groups wich
     also create unbelievable stuff.
 
 10. What do you think about AV's (and their products)? Which are best/worst?

     Well, most of them make themselves lame and dirty by harassing the
     VX-people and producing commercial shit.
     I like the AV's which really invent sth. new, which accept us and which 
     also write great progs.
     As i wrote DOS-virii, my pair of choice was F-prot and TBAV.
     I didn't use them to catch the others viruses, I used it to get to know
     how good my own stuff was.  

 11. Do you have any new ideas for viruses you want to write in the near 
     future? 
     
     Haha...I finished califax.c a prog which jumps from Linux to M$DOS.
     You'll wonder how it worx. Really new stuff. But its a Lab-vir yet.
     The fun just begins. Stay tuned for SVAT's new sources...

