::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Nov/98
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 0 - File 10:::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Conclusion:

 We've picked ourselves up off the ground and dusted ourselves off, 
the next issue is already shaping up well, we'll be unveiling the 
results of our insane competitions. Details of new sections will be 
in the next issue as well as various other exciting things. These 
will include a Review of the upcoming Mitnick Movie - 'TakeDown',
'Eluding Unix Authentication' and an interview with other notorious
underground figures. 
 Now, announcing two DoJ competitions, 'Cheesy ASCII Art' and 
'Stalk the Staff'. The ASCII Art competition was inspired by Rue 
asking his friend bedlam if he wanted to do a little ASCII map 
for people going to the Dublin 2600 meeting (the answer is 
unprintable). For the Art competition we're looking for dodgy 
art of a purely ASCII nature, self portraits, maps, sexual 
innuendo, anything remotely ASCII like really. The best selection 
(or anything we get if it comes down to it) will be published in 
either next issue or at our convenience. The winner receives a 
free lifetime subscription to the DoJ and the respect an admiration 
of everyone for his elite ASCII skillz. Send your ASCII submissions 
to ascii@Rue-the-Day.net and we'll laugh hideously at your vague
attempts...
 'Stalk the Staff' is inspired by various people we 
know and the maniacs who shamelessly harass them online (and from 
personal experiences of one of the editors). By the way, we mean 
'maniacs' in the nicest possible way. For the stalking competition 
we're basically looking for all you people out there that get off 
on disturbing minor underground celebrities, like ourselves, to 
send us emails of your insane (inane?) rants and raves. We're also 
looking for amusing stalker stories from anyone who has them. If 
you really want to send decapitated soft toys with 'Rue' written 
on them or whatever then take a photo instead as we aren't big into 
snail mail. All submissions welcomed, get stalking people! Send the 
submissions to stalkers@Rue-the-Day.net and you'll never hear from 
us again...
 Well, there you have it. The first issue of The DoJ. Be sure
to look out for future issues as they are on their way. But
to make sure we get there, we need your help. Fiction, articles,
poetry, stories, fact, rumour, advice and even letters will 
all help get the nest issue out. Rue and myself wrote a lot for
this issue, but in the future we hope to be able to leave most
of it in your hands. Submit anything remotely underground that
you might have. Underground instructions, warning, tales or 
whatever else you have. 
 This issue wouldn't have been possible without the help of 
ethercat for the site, rOTTEN for the art, Digital Avatar and
Kleptic for their submissions. Thank you and also if you have
an underground site or newsletter worth a mention than contact
us. You can mail the DoJ at discordia@Rue-the-Day.net and we
will reply as soon as possible.
 Nothing more really to be said, hope you enjoyed Issue 0 and 
got something from it. Preferably not contageous. The following
cultural content helped inspire us; The Dead Kennedys, Placebo,
Scraping Foetus off The Wheel, A Tribe Called Quest, The Smashing
Pumpkins, La Haine, Albino Alligator and Things to Do in Denver
When You're Dead.
 Thanks and cya next time...

 And remember not to eat those big white mints !

 Hail Discordia !

 Cronus and Rue-the-Day
 Editors
