::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Nov/98
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 0 - File 2 :::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:The Decay of Society:

 Modern Society is nothing more then a sprawling cesspool of 
corrupt and decaying biomatter.  No one has even tried to 
regulate society or improve upon it since well before the 
invention of moving electrons.  The early American's were 
pioneers in society.  Setting up a culture that was world 
respected for decades was no small task.  But since the world 
wars the huge degraded continent has slowly and constantly 
began to fade and decline into the realms of modernly acceptable 
decay.  As it has declined, the rest of the world has quickly 
followed suit. Terrorist nations grasping on this as an 
opportunity for more self-destructive ideas and actions.  
Religious cults have shot up with rapid and spontaneous 
regularity.  Freaks and criminals have seized on the widely
available source of modern communications for mass annoyance 
and get-rich-quick ideas. Moreover, since the US has declined 
in its state of national affairs, other governments have made 
conscious efforts to impose like-restrictions on their nations. 
Forced regular advertisement both on TV and in print form.  
Strong backing for American products over others through the 
notion that they are somehow more reliable even though their 
source of origin was clearly no where near a place of 
American Jurisdiction. 
 Crimes raising with direct proportion with population increases. 
Mortality rates falling in small, manageable countries such as 
Britain or France, but raising monstrously in other poorer 
nations such as Sudan or Mali.  The basis of human life has 
gradually vanished as we as a society have decided unanimously 
that abortion and permanent contraception is acceptable in 
this promiscuous world.  Why should we punish for murder and 
still accept freely the murder on the smaller level of a foetus 
or an embryo?  I am not commenting on abortion and the moralities 
behind it.  I am simply trying to get the reader to think.  Why 
do we still believe in fictional ideas of an all-seeing all-knowing 
father figure such as god, when the thought of leprechauns, demons 
and witches were demised years ago?
 Society still longs for some sort of protections.  They still 
live off the idea that someone is still there watching them and 
looking after their best interests.  God is a fictional character, 
and it only still exists because society can't give up their over
powering father figure. People need someone to chastise them, look
after them and even nurture them. By not realising that they are 
clinging on to an archaic image, they are living in the past without 
understand that the future is clearly what needs to be looked after 
and protected.
 Society has to awaken from its age-old slumber and release that it 
needs to look after itself and live up to expectations. Drop the 
phantasmal theories, re-embellish the value of human life and step 
in the reality that we have created around ourselves...  
 Long live paranoia...

 Cronus [cronus@iol.ie]
