::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Nov/98
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 0 - File 8 :::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:The Mixed Up Underground:

Hacking as we know it is very mixed up. There are so many people trying to
be hackers [I'm going to refrain from the word wannabe] that only some make
it to that goal. The rest get lost somewhere in the void between. The best
way to stop hacking is never to start. Hacking isn't a bad thing. But its a
commitment. Like having a family or something. My best advice to newbies is
not try to learn how to "hack". I suggest learning about computers. Have
fun with them. Set up a network. Use Windows for all I care. For all anyone
cares. Those who say the first step to becoming a hacker is setting up
Linux are stupid. They should be thrown out to the dogs. Most newbies don't
even know what UNIX is and trying to explain that Linux is a version of
UNIX written by Linus Torvalds originally from a modified from of Minix and
that it runs on Intel based home computers with a partition which allows
multiple operating systems is pushing it. Woah. If a newbie understands
that then they should go work for NASA and help return our glorious urge
for space exploration back to what it used to be.

In my opinion, if a person feels the need to become a hacker or push their
computer to the extreme then they should do just that. Push their COMPUTER
to the extreme. Not rack their brains for hours on end and eventually wind
up in that void I talked about earlier. Hacking is about getting into
computers...hmm..so if you know about your own computer allot then
maybe...just maybe it makes it possible for you to get into another
computer. There's a thought. Then you don't have to read all those hyped
technical manuals that you get bored reading. Instead you can have fun and
do things. Sounds better to me.

This is not a guide "how to hack" if you don't already know. I plan to write
a page about how the hacking society has turned into something like the US
Government which hackers supposedly dislike. Why? Because its corrupt and
power-hungry. In the end all things made by humans or used by humans or
organised by human's turns into something like that. So forget listening to
others. Do things your way. If you don't want to read this text or that or
set up Linux, then don't. There are no requirements for being a hacker. If
there were then I'm sure that the hacker society would go form a new
country and label it "copy of the US Gov." But no. It hasn't got that bad
yet. So learn while you can. Maybe it will help you out in life. Or maybe
you will end up in the cage with murderers and rapists. I dunno. Would that
be fun? Thats what happens if you try to hard to learn too fast. So back to
the original idea of just losing the generally thought idea of how to hack
and just learning computers.

If you really want some quick tips on becoming a hacker in non-conventional
ways then here they are. Get like 2 or 3 computers. Windows is fine. They
can be cheap ones. Then read up on networking. Maybe set up a TCP-IP
network between these three computers. Then access one of these other
computer from DOS. Well good. You have knowledge of TCP-IP [the basis of
the internet], DOS [how many million lines of UNIX code are in DOS??], and
some lovely problem solving skills. There. You know some good stuff now!
Maybe you want to add to your home network. Add some interesting things
here and there and try them out. You can learn more every day. Maybe you
want to try to put a Macintosh on your network. Hmm...Read up on it. Talk
to some people. Once you have that then you are quite knowledgable! What
next? Maybe some UNIX variance. By now you have heard about it. The free
operating system [Linux] which you can put on an old 486 and hook up to
your network too. There. Unix, Mac, TCP-IP, Windows, Problem Solving,
Hardware skills. All lumped together. Then maybe, just maybe you want to
host your very own networking help website on your very own network. Set up
a server, and get a domain name and configure, configure, configure. That
definitely adds to your knowledge! Fun. Now you know a whole bunch about
hacking [you didn't even know it?] without having to go to ONE site with
those flaming skulls. Good for you.

I hope this text has made you think. It sure made me. All my ideas and
anger on paper [what SHOULD I call it?] and enough information to get you
in action. I haven't said once that you have to do anything. And you don't.
Just go your own route. The network I talked about WOULD help you out. And
it would be fun to build [and have]. So make your own decisions and keep
thinking!

-Digital Avatar 9.23.98
