***Final Thoughts***

by Opic

	And so we come to the close of another issue of CodeBreakers VX zine.
My hopes are that you all walk away with something new and different from 
it. And especially that you all have walked away with a greater sense of 
uniny for the VX scence in general.  For me it is always seems a magical 
thing when I see coders of all different abilities and paths of thought set 
thier egos aside and work together to help one another learn and grow.  Do
not be fooled, this is not a trivial practice, but the mark of people with
true motivation and drive (no matter if they are in 100% alignment of not).
	I have made it my highest effort to bring a expansive collection of
information to this edition, my hopes being that experienced coders and 
newbies alike, would find appreciation in this broad collection of 
materials (wether they had understood the concepts for years, or had never 
encountered them before). I hope you have felt this zine is diverse as I have
attempted to make it.  The CodeBreakers are always looking for comments,
contributions, or just plain old greetings. You can find out more about us 
(if you dont already know) at: WWW.CodeBreakers.org, some of us tend to take
the risks associated with giving our email addresses out to you the public,
while others of us would prefer to remain in the shadows.  You may ask if you
wish to contact a certain member, but please respect the privacy of our 
members who may not wish constant correspondance.
	In future issues of CodBrk vx, we will be finishing our DOS virus 
tutorials with a full length exploritory article on Boot sector/MBR viruses,
again we will be hoping to introduce these technique in a reader-friendly 
manner that will be encouraging to the audience, while bringing new 
techniques and concepts into this method of infection. Any suggestions, 
ideas, or contributions are, as always, welcome.

Best wishes,

Opic [CodeBreakers 1998]
email: opic@thepentagon.com


