   [removal.gif]

   Well, dear virus friends, this article may be a little bit unfriendly,
   but, our mag is an open forum. And besides, we do not have CDA (now
   after couple of week i don't know what stands this for). The main goal
   of this article is just to show our vx community, how easy can be our
   viruses removed, when necessary.

   AV Companies
   There is a shitload of viruses and virus strains around, and many of
   them are "In the wild". Estimated virus count is about 20000+ and we
   also have more than 3500+ macroviruses. It is not likely any AV
   software can succesfully detect all the viruses. Nor they can remove it
   all. But they are at least trying it.

                                [asepar.gif]

   A. Overwriting viruses
   These viruses are basically uncleanable. No doubt. This category of
   viruses is lame. And lameness of this virus type is also the reason,
   why the infected files cannot be cleaned to their original state. They
   can be deleted, renamed, but the only way to restore infected files to
   their original state is the use of backup copies (if they exist).

                                [asepar.gif]

   B. Non overwriting viruses.
   This type of viruses can be removed in up to 100 per cent of cases. The
   reason is the virus of this category has to launch the host in some
   monent. In this specific point of time, the host file is rebuilt in
   that way, as if it was not infected, or better the file is executed as
   not infected.

   But, let's take a closer look on every type of non-overwriting viruses.

   B1. FILE VIRUSES
    1. Companion viruses
       This type of viruses takes advantage of priority of launching
       executable files with the same name but different extension. Sorted
       from highest to lowest priority, the files are launched in
       following order:
         1. com
         2. exe
         3. bat
       The virus simply creates file with the same name, but with
       extension having higher priority, containing the copy of virus, or
       changes the file extension to one with lower priority and writes
       the viral into the file with original name and extension. As the
       virus doesn't modify the infected file in any way, it is trivial to
       remove the virus. The structure of the file can help to determine
       the original file extension. Any file, starting with obvious 'MZ'
       or 'ZM' is handles as EXE file by the system, when having specific
       minimal lenght. This limit seems to be 26 bytes.
       Following code
   db      'MZ'
   db      21 dup ('A')
   int     20h
       exits without any problems, but when you replace second line with
   db      22 dup ('A')
       you get nice message "Program too big to fit in memory".
       Thus, first remove the file with viral body. Then check the file
       structure and of the file with the same name and rename it back to
       original extension. And bingo.
    2. Linking viruses (DIR II and its kind)
       This type of viruses takes doesn't change anything in infected
       file. It just link the starting cluster of the file to the viral
       body located somewhere on the disk.
       Main symptom one can see if lot of cross-linked files all around
       the disk drive. To "clean" this kind of virus one need to link back
       the strating cluster of the file to the original. And do not forget
       to remove the virus body from the harddisk.
       For information considering FAT 32 take a look at great article
       [1]A fool named FAT 32 by flush.
    3. Com viruses
       Basically, there are two types of COM viruses. The first type uses
       the "classic" way to receive the controll. It writes to the
       beginning of the file jump to the virus body and saves the original
       bytes somewhere in virus body.

                                  JMP virus
                                  E9 xx xx

                            Rest of them program

   virus:

                                 Virus body

                               Original bytes

       To remove virus of this kind, is necessary to locate in virus body
       original bytes form the file start and restore the start of the
       file. Then the file is it was before infection (but still contains
       the viral body). Last step in the process of removing virus is to
       cut the viral body. In most cases can be used as the best for
       cutting the (xx xx)+3 position, where xx xx stands for the size of
       initial jump. In most typical case whole body of the virus is
       removed. In some rare exceptions the file will contain some bytes
       of viral body.
       Second approach is more complex. The virus body is written to the
       beginning of the file and the rest of the file is just moved behind
       the virus body. On execution the virus moves the file to its
       "normal" position and launches it.

                                 Virus body

                              Program moved up

       The solution of infection is very handy is this case. All the Averz
       have to do is to move the program to the beginning of the file.
       Nothing less, nothing more.
       As possible "D-fence" can be used combination of both infection
       methods above. But the removal still will be very easy.
    4. Exe viruses
       Typically, exe infecting viruses appends the viral body to the end
       of the file and then virus modifies EXE header in order to launch
       virus before the infected file.

                                 EXE header
                                    CS:IP

                                   Program

                                 Virus body

       It is sure somewhere in the virus is stored at least original value
       of Exe_CS and Exe_IP, optionally also Relo_SS and/or Relo_SP or
       even the whole original EXE header. Virus is removed in following
       steps. At very beginning the Exe_CS and Exe_IP are located and
       their values are restored. Optionally are restored also Relo_SS and
       Relo_SP. Then is necessary to compute values of size of the file in
       pages and store this two words to offsets 2 and 4 in the header.
       Now it is possible to save restored file header to the file. And
       last step is the cutting the file to its original size.
       If the virus contains whole original header (as most of the steatlh
       viruses do) is the removal of the virus easier as described above.
       All the cleaning is about is to locate the original header inside
       the virus and save it to the offset 0 in the file. Then naturally
       Avers cut the virus body and .... Done !
       Well, exe files, the above stuph was all about the DOS times. Now
       is the PE file the target. And removing of virus infections here
       can be even easier. If the bad Aver is really lazy, all he need to
       do is to skip the virus. In other words, he has to set original RVA
       entrypoint on the file. He doesn't need to care with viral body or
       added section.
       So dudes, in order to make their task harder, do some unusual
       operation with the saved bytes necessary to hand over the code flow
       to the infected host.
    5. Sys viruses
       Device drivers are the rarest target for viruses. Since Dark Angel
       published his tutes, everyone can infect *.sys files. The trick is
       simple as hell - it uses the feature of SYS philes - chaining of
       the SYS files. All we need do infect a SYS file is to add the
       necessary code to the host and just change the first dword of the
       file to point to the header of our new character device. So easy it
       is.
       So is the cleaning. Very lazy Aver can assume something in the way
       there is always only once driver in SYS file. The procedure of
       cleaning is then
          + take a word from offset BOF+2 in the file
          + lseek to that location
          + cut here the file
          + lseek to BOF
          + write this 4 bytes: 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF 0xFF to the BOF
       They could also take a more optimised way: to transverse all the
       headers, till they found a last one. This is beginning of the
       virus, so cleaning is easy then.

                                [asepar.gif]

   B2. Boot viruses
   Boot virus occupies MBR of the hard disc or boot sector of the drive.
   In most typical case, the virus stores "somewhere" on the infected
   media also the original, uninfected MBR or boot sector. To wipe boot
   virus is very efficient to use the sector with stored MBR/boot sector
   and to restore its original location. Another method is to use of some
   kind of generic MBR/boot sector, when original in not available. To try
   to fuck up with the averz, all you have to do is not to allow a clean
   boot. Could be arranget with a little bit phantasy and code ...

                                [asepar.gif]

   B3. Macroviruses
   As for the macroviruses, there is a very simple workaround - all you
   have to do is to delete macros. Sure, this is not the best solution,
   but quit reliable. You have no macros, viral as well as non viral. Non
   viral macros are let's say casulities of the war.

                                [asepar.gif]

   B4. Multipartite viruses
   Basically these viruses have multiple targets of infection. Therefore
   cleaning such a thing is more complex - you have to clear e.g. boot
   sector and the files or documents and philes. Lot of possibilities
   AVers can do some errors :)))

                                [asepar.gif]

   B5. Special viruses
   Requires special methods of removing, if the removing is possible. Here
   belongs also the viruses with some kind of "life insurance", like
   One_half with its hard disk encryption or Griyo s Implant with its
   cyclic partition. If some AVer doesn't pay atention to this special
   method of infection can await a lot of hot line traffic.

                                [asepar.gif]

   C. Closing words
   AVers due the increasing number of viruses doen't have time to clean
   all of them. But they are at least trying - so do their job as much
   time costing as it will be not worth the money.

Références

   1. file:///home/petik/git/vx-ezine/asterix/asterix2/articles/fat32.html
