CRYPT NEWSLETTER 40
December 1996 - January 1997

Editor: Urnst Kouch (George Smith, Ph.D.)
Contributing Editor: Stephen Poole
INTERNET: 70743.1711@compuserve.com
          crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu



Who reads Crypt Newsletter:
==========================

The great majority of Crypt Newsletter readers do it on company
time.  While there are accesses at all hours, heaviest usage and
downloading of current issues occurs during U.S. business hours,
beginning at around 7:30 EST and continuing to 4:40 Pacific time.

Readers of Crypt Newsletter log in monthly from organizations like
Lucent Technologies, Loral, Lockheed, MITRE Corporation, NASA-JPL,
Electronic Data Systems, Intel, Digital, CSIRO, Science Applications,
Unisys, the World Bank, Fujitsu, DuPont, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, FermiLab, the US Dept. of the Treasury, the US Naval
Undersea Warfare Center, the EPA [?!], Disney [heh], Oak Ridge National Lab,
Argonne Laboratory, Lawrence Berkeley, Vandenberg AFB, China Lake Naval
Weapons Research, and many anonymous U.S. military Internet domains
that refuse open telnet connections and "finger" queries.  Others
log in from media organizations like the BBC, The Bloomberg Business
News Service, New York Times, various newspapers, The Net magazine,
and The Age (a Melbourne, Australia-based newspaper), too.

Crypt Newsletter articles may not be copied or reproduced in or on other
media, on CD-ROM collections of data, or offered - in part or in toto - as
part of any database, data survey, information or research service
for pay without consent of the editor. Rates based on word count are
reasonable. Queries by e-mail are welcome.


ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ Contents: Crypt Newsletter #40      ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

 THIS ISSUE

MEDIA REVIEW
Uncool: Excite, MIT robot-men and a crew of beamish TV psychotics
NEWS
The New York Times digs up some Serbian electronic bogeymen
Disinformation wants to be free: An FBI newsletter is hooked on a 'Net joke
The case of the Ft. Bragg hacker: Eric Jenott ruled no ChiCom spy
Random notes: A dispatch from Paskell Paris & Tom Tomorrow's tour of CIS
Virus Hysteria Awards 1996 -- The Winners, or losers
SOFTWARE
EMD's Personal Firewall keeps pushy Webmasters out of your business
MISCELLANY
  Letters page
  Crypt Newsletter Hypertext
  Crypt Masthead Info
  Credits/Acknowledgment



THE WEB SAGES OF EXCITE, THE ATTACK OF THE MIT ROBOT-MEN, TORONTO
BOB AND THE DEFINITION OF UNCOOL

Crypt Newsletter was overwhelmed this issue by a flood of disinformation
in the mainstream media addressing the nature of "coolness" on the
Internet. (For the rest of this piece, the word "cool" will be
spelled Ko0L, so the reader knows it transcends whatever prosaic meaning 
the dictionary has assigned to it.)

The Daily Bugle (check Crypt's mailing address and guess the
real name of the local newspaper) had an article on Ko0l on the
'Net.  So the reader knew the article was about being Ko0L, it used
the word frequently.  Excite, a Mountain View, CA, company that runs 
one of the more successful Web search engines had invested a lot of 
effort, the article said, into a research team delving into the
nature of Ko0L.  The ubiquitous company flack said Excite had
"the world's best editorial team" working on the project.  The
Excite investigators of Ko0L, it was said, had the "judgment
and wisdom of experienced [Web site] reviewers."

The mandarins of Ko0L at Excite had cataloged and ranked
60,000 Ko0L sites.  Sixty thousand!  Crypt whipped out a pencil and
paper and calculated that if it visited 10 Ko0L sites a day, a
modest number, it would take about two years of burrowing to get
to the bottom of the Ko0L pile.  This was such a large amount,
Crypt mused that it might be wise to consult the collective owners of
it -- this vast corral of Ko0L, so to speak -- in order to
investigate its potential as a saleable good.  Perhaps Ko0L could be
purchased by credit card number after which the owner of it would
send some in a packet of electrons to the lucky buyer's e-mail
address of choice.

In fact, The Bugle's reporter was so ahead of the curve on the
issue of Ko0L, she realized it was impossible to define and instead
focused the article on those charged with dispensing the illusion
of it to the proletariat.

Just think about this for a moment.

There you are, sitting at home in your underwear, fiddling with your
Website. You have no idea the vast amount of Ko0L you could be
perched on top of.  If you shout, "Hey, check out my site, d00d,
there is a great deal of Ko0L to be found," most likely you
will be met with a mixed response. Visitors will scratch their
heads and wander away.  But, when an "editorial team -- the best
in the world" -- passes judgment, suddenly everyone, including you,
can see that pile of Ko0L.

Ten thousand hits will clog your server for one whole day.  Sycophants
will turn up to ask for virtual favors. On-line time-wasters will send
you witless and indecipherable electronic mail messages. Second rank
"Me-too" journalists may be goaded into writing articles on your Ko0L-mine.
The Bugle's J. Jonah Jameson could send Peter Parker to take photos of 
you sitting at your PC, admiring your pile of Ko0L. Therefore, we see 
that the Excite reviewers are the actual fountainhead of Ko0L.  Which is 
what the business wants you to think.  Without it, you are nothing.

Crypt News wondered aloud how many of its loyal readers with
Websites of their own secretly yearned for a team of reviewers
possessed of "judgment and wisdom" and armed with high editorial
skill to descend upon them and bestow the gift of Ko0L, ranked
from 1-to-60,000-and-counting. Fortunately, not many, it reckoned.

The computer wizards at MIT also took the last couple of weeks to
drown TV viewers in Ko0L.  It seemed as if the school had
made a secret deal to acquire the Discovery channel so every "futurist" 
program aired could feature MIT students and faculty around-the-clock.

It was so overwhelming, Crypt News imagined the school was about to
hire Lindsay Wagner as a spokeswoman.

Just like with her commercials for Ford, Lindsay could be
shown receiving a CD-ROM from MIT.  She'd pop it into her computer
and a vista of MIT's Media or Artificial Intelligence Lab would appear.

Lindsay would click on a door to the AI Lab, it would open and
a bunch of extremely fucked-looking students wearing computers
they had inventively crafted into ugly hats and fannypack purses
would waddle out. "Ohhhh," Lindsay would coo.  "Those MIT guys think
of everything. Oh, they're so cute!"

No joke! This is actually what Discovery seemed to be
showing for a great part of the month of November:  Alan Alda
and some MIT computer-wearing students walking around campus.
Henry Tennenbaum -- with the same footage, sans Alan -- showing
the MIT computer-wearing students trudging down a flight of stairs.

It was really neat.  Just think the pleasure _you_ could get if
you were one of those MIT students with a computer you could wear
on your head, blocking the vision out of one or both eyes.  You
could add a video camera to the top of your head, too, and send
pictures of yourself sitting at a table, ordering falafel or
chatting with newfound celebrity pals like Alan.

Hey, stop picking your nose on camera! It's spoiling the video.

Complete strangers could watch it and send you e-mail suggestions to
forward the footage to Henry Tennenbaum or those two sissies dressed
in lab coats who pretend to be scientists for NextStep while tooting
the horn for whatever $5000 piece of computer equipment a vendor has
sent them for free this week. Just think how innovative and techno-groovy 
it would be to annoy acquaintances at restaurants by wearing your stylish 
computer and impatiently tapping at the keyboard during their
boring old-fashioned conversation.  You could pretend to be a robot . . .
just like the actors portraying the icky Borg in the new Star Trek movie.

And when you left MIT, you might start meeting people who aren't
beamish psychotics from TV-land like Alan, Henry or the two sissies in
lab coats. You could run into Americans who aren't paid handsomely to
cluck and gobble appreciatively on canned TV while humoring self-indulgent
idiosyncracy.

You could even walk into a bar. A member of the Bandidos biker gang,
a power drunk or a downsized corporate employee might catch a glimpse
of your computer garments and mistake you for an irritating geek. Then
you could broadcast riveting real-time footage to the Internet of him
bashing you savagely over the head with a cuestick until the connection
is lost due to damage to the hardware.

A week later, instead of being on Discovery or A&E, you would be on
Fox's "When Animals Attack!" -- thus broadening your audience.

Even more annoying was seeing Bob Ezrin on Toronto's MediaTelevision,
a program that appears to be one incarnation of the anti-Christ in
this world, being a platform only for the veneration of TV and
computer advertising.

But -- back to Bob.  

Remember him? He was the record producer for legendary rock and roll 
albums like Alice Cooper's "Love It To Death" in 1971.  Now, Toronto Bob 
is a "multimedia mogul," responsible for a number of silly CD-ROM games. 
Toronto Bob was so excited about computers, the serial number on the rubber 
feet of his old Commodore, and the future of the civilized world it 
appeared he was about to wet himself.

Now let Crypt News put this in perspective.  In the 70's Bob was never
seen on TV flogging transient technology. Instead he produced record albums
by legendary rock bands -- record albums that are still in demand over
25 years later.  Today, Toronto Bob has jumped on the high-tech express
to oblivion, producing CD-ROM games, nine out of ten of which will
be in the virtual trashcan inside four months.

That's tragic.

Well, Crypt News has decided it's no judge of Ko0L.  However, it sure
knows the opposite when it sees it.



THE NEW YORK TIMES DIGS UP AN ELECTRONIC BOGEYMAN FROM SERBIA
POISED TO FREE MANKIND FROM YOKE OF THE INTERNET

electronic bogeyman: a hacker, instrument of a hacker or anonymous
source portrayed in the mainstream media as a menace to society.
The electronic bogeyman must always be quoted making grandiose,
unverifiable, or nutty claims (e.g., opening all the automatic
garage doors in Anaheim, California at precisely 2:00 pm) about feats,
usually malicious, that can be performed with a computer.

Usage:  The New York Times interviewed an _electronic bogeyman_
from Serbia who claimed his computer virus would corrupt data
on the Internet in order to save mankind from itself.

               --From the Crypt News "Joseph K Guide to Tech
               Terminology"



The Dec. 8 issue of the New York Times included a short bit of news
on Serbian virus-writers yearning to destroy the Internet.

In de facto electronic bogeyman style <tm>, the Times printed
18-year old Belgrade University physics student Rasa Karapandea
declaring he and a group of peers were bending their life to the
destruction of the Internet.

How was this to be accomplished?  By the writing of computer viruses
for the Unix operating system, said Karapandea.

"We are working on making viruses for Unix, the system the Internet
uses, but it is well protected.  We know how to destroy the DOS system,
that is easy," Karapandea conspiratorially confided to the Times.

Like all good electronic bogeymen, Karapandea and his team of
virus-writers have a back-up plan should their grasp of the technology
of Unix viruses fall short. It's "Dig we must!"

"If we can't make a virus fox Unix we can always cut the optical cable
. . . This is my mission in life to save the world from the
Internet."

It is only the pure milk of human kindness, apparently, that motivates
Kaparandea in this superhuman task. "The Internet is a dehumanizing
[addiction] and the greatest single threat to human civilization,"
he said.

Since the Serbian electronic bogeyman was part of a story on
Yugoslavian protesters on the Web -- a junknews topic imitated in
knee-jerk fashion by many major dailies during the first weeks of
December -- it's worth mentioning that a few discerning Crypt News
readers felt the electronic bogeyman <tm> quotient for the topic so
high that it seemed likely there was a 50-50 chance the N. Y. Times
reporter had embellished a substantial portion of his dispatch purely for
effect.




FBI LAW ENFORCEMENT BULLETIN GULLED BY 'NET JOKE


"Disinformation wants to be free" -- perversion of overused and tiresome
hacker slogan, "Information  wants to be free."  In this case, a more
accurate description of a condition that shapes cyberspace.

                             -*-

Most wanderers of the Internet are familiar with the running
joke concerning computer viruses with names of celebrities, politicians
or institutions.

The names and satirical content evoke a momentary smile or groan.

For example:

"Gingrich" randomly converts word processing files into
legalese often found in contracts. Victims can combat this virus
by typing their names at the bottom of infected files, thereby
signing them, as if signing a contract.

"Lecture" deliberately formats the hard drive, destroying all
data, then scolds the user for not catching it.

"Clinton" is designed to infect programs, but it eradicates
itself when it cannot decide which program to infect.

"SPA" examines programs on the hard disk to determine whether
they are properly licensed. If the virus detects illegally copied
software, it seizes the computer's modem, automatically dials
911, and asks for help.


However, editors and writers for the Federal Bureau of Investigation's
Law Enforcement Bulletin, published monthly out of the organization's
training academy in Quantico, Virginia, apparently think they are real.

Writing in the December issue of the magazine, David L. Carter, Ph.D.,
and Andra J. Katz, Ph.D., respectively professors at Michigan State and
Wichita State, cite them as real examples of "insidious" new computer
viruses in the magazine's feature article entitled "Computer Crime: An
Emerging Challenge for Law Enforcement."

The authors seem to genuinely believe these computer viruses are in
circulation, even to the point of citing the "Clinton" joke
again in an paragraph attempting to explain the motivations of
virus-writing, would-be system saboteurs.

"Some employees could be motivated to infect a computer with a
virus simply for purposes of gamesmanship. In these cases, the
employees typically introduce a virus to play with the system
without intending to cause permanent damage, as in the case of
the 'Clinton' virus."

Put in perspective, this is similar to reading a scientific
paper on the behavior of elephants and suddenly running across a
section that straightforwardly quotes from some elephant jokes as
proof of what pachyderms really do when wandering the African veldt.

Alert reader Joel McNamara hipped Crypt News to this LEB gem and 
wrote:

"The two researchers with the Dr. in front of their names seem to be
totally clueless that this was a tongue-and-cheek joke that is still
floating around the 'Net.  If they did know it was humor, they made no
effort to inform readers - [readers] I highly doubt are technically
adept enough to recognize it.

"It's really telling that the world's lead law enforcement agency
allows these types of inaccuracies to be widely distributed to police
departments and agencies.

"Unfortunately, to me this is another example of the credibility
problem the FBI has when it comes to dealing with computer related
issues."

Neither authors nor editors of the Law and Enforcement Bulletin could
be immediately reached for comment.

The FBI's curious article can be found off the FBI home page on
the Web:

http://www.fbi.gov/leb/dec961.txt  .



THE FT. BRAGG HACKER CASE:  SOMEWHAT LESS THAN A CHICOM SPY

In late October, the Fayetteville Observer-Times started reporting
on pre-trial maneuvering in the case of Eric Jenott, a Fort Bragg, NC,
paratrooper accused of hacking U.S. Army systems and furnishing passwords
to a citizen of communist China. Much of the Jenott trial -- a court
martial -- was characterized by long bouts of closed-court testimony,
gossip, a suicide attempt by one of the prosecutors, argument over whether
computer passwords were classified or not and electronic scribblings
attributed to the Ft. Bragg hacker which indicated that when he was a
teenager he had a standard if somewhat intense youthful resentment of
authority -- aimed at the U.S. government in particular.

Witnesses came forward to testify that Jenott had made various
statements about hacking feats on Department of Defense computers.
Some of this testimony was furnished by a convicted two-bit thief
obviously maneuvering to gain some leverage for his own legal battles.
Other testimony on Jenott's interest in hacking into protected systems
came from bits and pieces apparently culled from posts on an Army
bulletin board system at Ft. Bragg.

At the finish, Jenott was found guilty only of compromising a military
system and for that he was given three years in prison. He and his
lawyer seemed satisfied with the outcome.


Pre-court martial maneuvering
=============================


In testimony at a hearing on October 23rd, Chief Warrant Officer Lorenzo
Clemmons said Eric Jenott told him he could break into an Army
communications system three months prior to the paratrooper's arrest on
spying charges.

Clemmons said Jenott told him in March 1996 that the Army's Mobile
Subscriber Equipment, carried by hummvee and the Army's equivalent of
cellular telephones, computer and fax communications, "might not be as
secure as we think . . . "

Jenott demonstrated the system's weakness to a supervisor who passed it
along to a Major Jerry R. Moore.  Moore subsequently met with
Jenott to discuss the weaknesses he had uncovered.  On October 23rd,
Jenott's defense attempted to show that statements the paratrooper made to
investigators during this session not be allowed as evidence since Moore
did not advise Jenott of his rights.

Jenott's family has maintained only that he gave an _unclassified_
Internet access code to a friend from China. The Army insists Jenott
gave secret computer passwords to a Chinese hacking accomplice,
named "Mr.  Liu."  At the hearing, Jenott's lawyer, Tim Dunn, said
"Mr. Liu" had left the country and could not be located.

According the Observer, the Jenott hearings are shrouded in secrecy.
"During the hearing only a few minutes of testimony were open.  The
hearing was closed to reporters twice when court wasn't even in session,"
reads a boxed-out quote from the 24th October edition of the newspaper.

Security officers for the Army claimed some testimony and audiotapes
presented at the hearing contain classified information.

During a period in which Jenott's lawyer questioned Moore over
what he would do if he discovered a soldier had "hacked" into
Army systems, Army prosecution objected, maintaining Dunn was
getting into classified information.  More testimony was subsequently
conducted behind closed doors.


The court martial begins
========================

Jenott's formal court martial on espionage charges at Fort Bragg, NC,
began Monday, Dec. 9, 1996.  If convicted, the potential sentence
for the Ft. Bragg hacker -- life in prison --  was dire.

The Army, according to the Fayetteville Observer, had been trying
to demonstrate Jenott was a criminal hacker trying to "gain favor"
with the communist Chinese government by giving passwords on an Army
system to a Chinese agent, known as "Mr. Liu." According to the paper,
Jenott's family has insisted all along that he gave only an unclassified
"Internet code" to Liu.

Jenott's defense team immediately tried to get "Mr. Liu," also identified
as Quihang Liu, declared an essential witness.  The idea behind this
stratagem: Since Liu would not or could not return to the U.S. for
Jenott's court martial, his absence would force the dismissal of the case
against the soldier. Liu was a Chinese national who worked for a short
time at Oak Ridge National Laboratory on a computer database and management
system and was a friend of Jenott's. He is no longer in America.

However, according to the Observer, Liu was interrogated by the FBI before
leaving the country.

During this investigation, Liu apparently "told federal agents that
Jenott did not give him a classified computer password. Later, he said
Jenott might have given him the password, then finally said he probably
received [a] password from Jenott."

Further, "Liu told investigators that Jenott gave him at least two other
computer passwords, including one that let him enter [a] University of
Washington computer system."

John Jenott, the Ft. Bragg soldier's father, has provided a partial
transcript of a conversation conducted in which his son said the
passwords which the government contends were classified were, in fact,
not classified. The passwords were published in training books given
by GTE to soldiers for home study, said Jenott.  In later testimony,
this would be confirmed by the industry developers of the system that
used the passwords.



US Army Prosecutor attempts to kill himself
===========================================

At the beginning of the second week of December, the court martial of
Eric Jenott took a strange turn when the military judge, Fred Arquilla,
replaced the Army's lead prosecutor, Emmett Wells, because he had
attempted to commit suicide.

Wells tried to kill himself by slashing one of his wrists with a razor
early Sunday morning, December 8th, and was immediately taken to an
army medical center, according to the Fayetteville Observer.

Moving swiftly, Arquilla appointed a new lead prosecutor, Tim Lucas,
and postponed further court action for only a day and a half over objections
from both sides.  On Monday, December 9, Jenott also pleaded not guilty
to all charges leveled at him.

Arquilla then denied a defense motion to have Quihang Liu named an
essential witness. Liu had indicated he would not return to the
United States for the trial. Arquilla also denied a request by Jenott's
defense for a review copy of the information taken from 600 diskettes
and two hard disks, formerly belonging to the Ft. Bragg soldier, and
seized by the government during its investigation.

On Thursday, Army investigator James P. Samberg testified the
Ft. Bragg hacker told him he was trying to "hurt the United States
and help China" when he gave away a "secret" password.

As the proceedings at the court martial unfolded, Samberg read from
Jenott's personal diary, a diary seized at the Ft. Bragg barracks in June.

From Jenott's diary -- dated sometime in 1991, according to Samberg:

"I just wish America, my own country, would be put to shame.
America is disgusting. I'm getting more and more impatient to go
to China."

Samberg also presented a poem, attributed to Jenott in 1993, entitled
"Red Blood and Snow."  "By the way, I've been a communist for about three
years," was alleged to be the poem's closing line.

Jenott's defense counsel, Tim Dunn, attacked Samberg's credibility.
According to the Observer, Samberg had acknowledged "falsifying a
weapons qualification record."

Prosecutors then tried to build the case that Jenott was a communist
Chinese defector-in-waiting by summoning one of Jenott's platoon members,
Nicolas Salado. Salado had travelled with Jenott in February 1996 to
visit Quihang Liu in Knoxville.  Salado testified that he saw
Jenott and Liu access Playboy's site on the Internet -- a known
hotspot of communists -- and that Jenott spoke to Liu in Chinese.

Prosecutor Matthew Wilkov subsequently claimed Jenott burned his
passport because he wanted to defect. The defense countered that Jenott
merely wanted to be a tourist and had a strong interest in Chinese
culture, having grown up with Chinese friends.

In keeping with the aura of secrecy that has surrounded the court
martial, military judge Fred Arquilla closed the court to the public
a number of times, supposedly due to the discussion of classified
material, according to the Observer. At one point, a witness' name
rank and unit were classified.  The Observer reporter got it anyway
and published the name of the classified soldier: "Alan Castle."

Willkov claimed that Jenott had also hacked systems run by the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, the secretary of the Army, the Department of
Defense, the Army, the Navy and the Air Force -- installing password
sniffers on them during the process.

On Friday, December 13, Fred Arquilla locked the public out of the
court martial for all but three minutes. The rest of the day the case
testimony was closed under a court order for military secrecy.


The so-called criminal hacker
=============================

By December 17th, the U.S. Army's prosecution of Eric Jenott, "the Ft.
Bragg hacker," was in full swing. Much of the testimony continued to
be aimed at proving Jenott to be a criminal hacker.  However, one key
witness turned out to be little more than a convicted thief attempting to
curry favor for himself in return for helping to convict Jenott. Other
testimony appeared to be standard circumstantial hacker hearsay attributed
to the Ft. Bragg soldier. Very little of the court's unclassified
proceedings convincingly portrayed Jenott as a potential spy for
communist China.

Raymond Chen, a former Marine, testified Jenott gave "the [Internet]
address for the secretary of defense computer system" to him "before
Jenott joined the Army." Chen accessed the system using this information,
he said.

According to Chen, Jenott confided that he had been hacking into Navy,
Air Force and other DoD computers since 1994. He claimed that Jenott
had admitted to deleting information from a Navy system.

Chen, who is also in legal trouble from this case and a convicted
thief stemming from a 1991 break-in at the University of Washington in
which he stole a computer, claimed he has been granted immunity from
prosecution in exchange for his testimony in the Jenott case. Chen was
convicted of burglary and possession of stolen property in December 1992.
His sentence was 60 days in jail and 30 days of community service.

Chen testified that he had negotiated immunity with Army prosecutor
Emmett Wells.  According to the Fayetteville Observer, Chen said in court
"Wells said if I can get Jenott convicted of espionage, he will get me
out of my trouble in Washington state."

Wells was quickly removed from the case when he attempted to commit
suicide by slashing a wrist a few days earlier.

Army prosecutor Matthew Wilkov had Chen say "he understood that Wells
was an Army prosecutor and had no direct control over the charges in
Washington."  However, Wilkov added "he had agreed to write a letter
saying Chen had cooperated in an Army case."

Testimony continued from Army employees who worked the Fort Bragg
bulletin board system.  Janet Warden said she had been monitoring
posts by Jenott and undisclosed others on the board.  The postings
were about computer hacking, she said, and included references to S-MILS,
a military acronym for secure military sites.

Warden said she had been instructed to observe Jenott's conversations
on the system.

Logs from the Ft. Bragg BBS indicated Jenott sent "several" electronic
messages to Qihang Liu at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Liu did not reply.

Another military intelligence investigator, Ronald E. Davis, said that
he interviewed Jenott and that "I learned he passed the password . . ."

Davis was asked twice by prosecution what he learned from Jenott.  The
second time he said he "learned [Jenott] committed espionage."  Jenott's
lawyer, Tim Dunn, immediately objected and Fred Arquilla sustained it.

The court was then closed again for the purposes of secrecy during
the rest of Davis' presentation and testimony from John F. Deasy, a
soldier from the Land Information Warfare Activity at Fort Belvoir,
Virginia.

When the court was re-opened, Deasy said he had been asked to look
"over a file about someone from Fort Bragg hacking into [a] University
British Columbia computer."  Deasy also said he was told the security
of a "switching station" on the Army's Mobile Subscriber Network
was breached.  The running subtext was that Jenott was responsible
for breaking the security of the military system.

Ray Chen testified again, claiming he had learned in a chat group
with Jenott's brother, Lance, and unnamed others that Jenott had
"hacked" into a university of British Columbia computer.

Other prosecution witnesses said they had followed Jenott's discussions
on the Ft. Bragg BBS on the use of passwords of "professors and students"
to hack into computers and the utilization of laptops and payphones to
avoid being traced.


Izzit secret?
=============

While the U.S. Army contended Eric Jenott gave a secret password
for a secure cellular telephone network to Quihang Liu, the
system's builder did not consider the password verboten until more
than a full month after the Ft. Bragg hacker was charged with
espionage.

GTE developed the system and an employee, Steven Sullivan, testified
at Jenott's court martial in another closed session, December 18th.

The prosecution's Matthew Willkov maintained the password was classified.
"If classified information is carried on the system, the password is
secret" he said, according to the Fayetteville Observer.

Jenott's defense disagreed.

Judge Fred Arquilla said the password is classified, but only in the
context of determining whether the court should be in closed session
during testimony. He informed the jury that closing the court should
not bear on its decision as to whether or not the password in
contention was or is actually classified.

Clear?

Anyway, much later FBI agent Steven McFall -- who said he was suffering
from a case of food poisoning -- testified that federal agents had seized
an Army jacket and uniform with Jenott's name on it from the apartment of
Quihang Liu.


Suicide?  Or not?  In court gossip rules
========================================

Jenott's counsel, Tim Dunn, said on Friday that he had checked out a tip
"that a former prosecutor [Emmett Wells] in the case tried to kill himself
because he was being pressured to alter documents."

According to the Fayetteville Observer, Dunn said he had also talked
to Wells and the rumor proved unsubstantiated.

"He said it was not true, it was fascinating, but he had to go,"
Dunn said.   Wells is currently being treated at Walter Reed Army
Medical Center after a mystifying attempt at killing himself by
slashing a wrist.

The Observer also reported the defense's effort to have some evidence
declared inadmissible because the government has kept sloppy records
on it. Judge Fred Arquilla denied Dunn's request but said he could
introduce evidence pointing out the government's sloppiness.

Kevin Nauer testified on computer data apparently seized from Jenott's
hard disks or diskettes. It included words purported to be written by
the Ft. Bragg hacker.

According to Knauer and reported in the Observer, a poem credited to
Jenott said "At least I'll have a tiny part in bringing this nation to
its knees."

According to prosecution testimony, Jenott is also claimed to have said
he had "wiped out hundreds of computers at the Defense Information Systems
Agency."

Throughout most of the Jenott case, it has been impossible to distinguish
whether much of the testimony is based on anything more substantive than
weird hacker bragging, notes from the underground, hearsay or crazy gossip.


Jenott takes the stand
======================

According to the Fayetteville Observer, Eric Jenott took the stand in
the last day of testimony of his court martial.

One of the charges leveled by the government against Jenott --
larceny -- was dropped because "a computer password" was judged
"intangible."

In his defense, Jenott said he was neither trying to hurt his country
or help China. He added he was "ashamed" about things he had written
in his diary that had seemed to cast him in the light of a communist
sympathizer.

Jenott testified that he had never believed in communism.

As a teenager, Jenott said "he had a negative opinion of Americans . . .
I thought Americans lived a soft lifestyle."

Continuing, he said he "was fascinated with China when he was younger,
but lost interest in the country after visiting it twice."
Jenott said he had burned his passport on a trip to China in 1993
"because [he] thought it would keep him from being deported,"
according to the Observer.  Later, the paper reported Jenott claimed he
became homesick on the trip and told the U.S. consulate that
his passport had been stolen.

There was discussion of Jenott's attempted sale of an American passport
in China in 1994.  Jenott said a childhood pal, Tim Edgley, had given
him the passport for sale when informed that it would be worth some
money in China.

The plan went awry when Jenott tried to sell the passport to a Chinese
police officer.

Going back to his childhood, Jenott described his life in a divorced
family and life with friends like Edgely, with whom he learned about
computer hacking.

Edgley, who also testified, agreed with Jenott's testimony.

The defense produced two of Jenott's Army peers as character witnesses,
too. Both praised Jenott, one saying he would have liked to have an
entire squad composed of soldiers like him.


Jenott cleared of espionage charges, gets three years and big chicken
dinner, anyway
=====================================================================

In the end an Army jury did not buy the prosecution's contention
that Eric Jenott had been a spy for China when he allegedly gave
a secret-or-perhaps-not-secret password to Quihang Liu.

Late Sunday, December 22, Eric Jenott was found not guilty of espionage
against the United States.  He was, however, convicted on three lesser
computer crimes involving the damage of government property  --
specifically, the meddling with the switching system of a U.S.
Army communications network, according to reports in the Fayetteville
Observer.

Jenott was sentenced to three years in prison and a big chicken dinner,
or "bad conduct" discharge.

The jury of eight -- split evenly between officers and non-coms --
considered the Jenott case for four and one-half hours before
returning its decision.

Jenott's counsel, Tim Dunn, appeared convinced justice was served. The
Observer reported him saying: "For us, it was clearly a victory."

Jenott was remorseful, saying, "I understand I've got to be punished
for what I did, but I hope that whatever punishment I get I'll have the
opportunity to serve my country again."

Judge Fred Arquilla told the Jenott jury "that in order to find Jenott
guilty of espionage, they would have to find that Jenott intended or
had a reasonable belief that the information would be used to injure
the United States or provide an advantage for a foreign nation."

Phillip Loranger, division chief for information systems security at
the Pentagon, said $5 million had been spent to improve the security
of the computer system that Jenott had demonstrated he could break
into.


RANDOM NOTES: A DISPATCH FROM PASKELL PARIS; TOM TOMORROW VISITS
COMPUSERVE


Over the holidays, Paskell "Geno" Paris mailed Crypt a number of
dispatches including a Christmas greeting. Paris, recently admonished
by a two year stint in prison, has resumed travel in cyberspace
under the handle "Colostomy Bagboy." Any who are interested
in swapping correspondence with him can send mail to:

jesus.christ@webcitement.com .

Paris indicated he was once again involved in tormenting users
of the Fidonet, referring to them in one electronic document
as "[the] Filthy Fido Capitalist PigDogs." Bagboy's current operations
are somewhat reminiscent of those of the character Jesus Bernal in Carl
Hiaasen's black humor/crime story, "Tourist Season" (Warner Books).
In neo-Bernal style, Paris vows to "smite [enemies] until they are most
smote" by employing mass distribution of nuisance electronic
leaflets and political statements.

                             -*-

Dan Perkins, also known as Tom Tomorrow and the creator of the
comic strip, "This Modern World," came to CompuServe in
December to promote his new book, "The Wrath of Sparky."

At an advertised on-line conference attended by four people, of
whom only one was not a CompuServe staffer directly connected to
the book promotion, Perkins made himself available to chat with
reader(s).  Even though the promotion was _sparsely_ attended,
CompuServe staffers still imposed the service's "gag" software
on the conference. When in force, it compels those at the conference
to put their questions to the speaker into a queue for approval
by a moderator.  While it's effective at controlling the flow of
large on-line discussions and dispatching hecklers, its use was
decidedly Kafka-esque in a chat attended by only one person not
connected with the promotion.

Perkins' strip runs in alternative weekly publications nationwide
and is well known for its savage skewerings of American social,
political and corporate shibboleths.

When asked what his favorite rejection was, Perkins said it was
"WIRED magazine."

"WIRED asked me to contribute to their initial issue but I didn't
have time," Perkins related.  "When I approached them one or two issues
later, I was told my work wasn't 'futuristic.'

"Now that I have a clearer sense of what they are all about, I don't
think they'd run my stuff because I'd be tearing down the fantasy world
they work so hard to [promote]."

With cover blurb's by Noam Chomsky and Ben Badigkian, Tomorrow's new
book, "The Wrath of Sparky" (St. Martin's Griffin), is available in
good bookstores everywhere.


SOFTWARE REVIEW: EMD'S ARMOR 95/PERSONAL FIREWALL KEEPS PUSHY
WEBMASTERS OUT OF YOUR BUSINESS

By Stephen Poole
================

EMD Enterprises (73 East Forrest Avenue, Shrewsbury, PA  17361) obviously
takes security very seriously.  The introduction in the on-line help
to the company's new Armor 95 - Personal Firewall System help states
that it will keep "hackers, viruses, and lurkers" from messing around
with your hard drive.  It's no joke, either.

When you install the software, the provided Setup Wizard will install
a DOS device driver, a DOS TSR, a VxD and several Windows programs.
This approach allows EMD to provide protection whether the PC is actually
under DOS mode or Windows, which is nice.

Once you've installed it, be warned that the Firewall isn't active until
you click on the "Personal Firewall" icon and select "Install."  You'll be
prompted for a name and password. The system will then be restarted and
protection is enabled.

Don't forget that password!  From that point on, you'll need it at each
bootup. You'll also need that password if you want to change something in
the configuration.

The bootup screen comes from the device driver (which is loaded as the first
line in CONFIG.SYS) and it's the first evidence that EMD is keeping the
grubbies of others out of your hard drive.  Pressing F8 won't work. You'll
still get the Logon screen.

Of course, even Joe Average User might guess that starting the machine from
a floppy would win access to the hard drive, and Joe'd be right.  For those
who want to control even this access, EMD includes the Lock program.  This
installs a custom boot record to the hard drive, rendering it inaccessible
to anyone who tries to bypass the logon.

When you run Lock, you'll be prompted to make a special recovery diskette
that can be used for emergencies. (You should do this. Otherwise, you will
have to FDISK and reformat the hard drive to use it if something ever
goes wrong).

The primary protection against file alteration (for example: by a virus) is
provided by a behavior-blocking system -- a suspicious-activity monitor.
You can specify filenames which are read-only. You can also specify file
extensions that are to be "watched."  If anything attempts to modify a
"protected" file, you're warned about it.

The behavior blocker is very sensitive.  As a simple exercise, I ran
an installation program that copied and renamed some .EXE files and
succeeded in generating several warning screens with the Personal Firewall.
In other words, anything that tries to mess with your disk's file system
unbidden can be brought to a screeching halt by the software.

So, if you don't mind an occasional warning screen, the blocker is
extremely effective.  Nothing in my collection of nasties could get past
it.  The Firewall stopped everything dead in its tracks before it could
cause damage. When employed in this manner, the Firewall is extremely
useful in vetting new software.

The Security provisions are the best part of the package. They
allow the personal PC user to enjoy a few features that are more
common on large network systems.  Indeed, EMD offers a "desktop"
version of the program, called -- naturally enough -- the Desktop
Firewall.  This version expands the program's features to cover
intranet peer-to-peer security for Win95 client PCs over a business'
network.

Anyway, the Internet Security feature is very effective, but the name
confused me.  I initially thought it implied on-the-fly scanning of
.DOCs and other stuff downloaded from the 'Net. But what this really does
is allow you to prevent access to selected subdirectories ("Folders," for
you Win95-only folks).

For those who aren't familiar with how subdirectory protection works:
Say you have a folder named "My Secret Stuff" that you don't want
anyone looking into.  You don't even want to allow a directory listing
of the filenames.

To prevent The Evil Web Lurker <tm> from doing this -- add that folder
name to the protected list, enable Internet Security, and no
one can look at it -- not even you.  You'll get an "access denied" error
if you try.

If you need to access the folder, you click the little padlock icon on the
taskbar and disable Internet Security for a moment.  When you're done, you
click the padlock and re-enable it. The folder is inaccessible again.

So, how does this provide Internet protection against "ActiveX, JAVA,
and Cookies" as EMD's documentation claims?  It takes a little work, and
to be frank, EMD does a terrible job of explaining this in the program's
on-line help, but to prevent access to certain data pushed or used by an
ActiveX page, you protect the folders containing that data.  To prevent
receiving "cookies," you find the subdirectory the page pushes them into
and protect it.

Just before starting your Web browser, click the little padlock icon and
enable "Internet Security."  Your Web browser (and thus any Web page
that you might access) will be unable to tamper with the protected files
or subdirectories.  This is currently a hot issue because computer
magazines have whipped the proletariat into a frenzy over the idea that
avaricious, nosy businessmen, pranksters and vandals lurk under every
Web page in cyberspace and that they all live to play fast-and-loose
with your machine and data via ActiveX or Java.  Whatever you believe,
the EMD Armor/Personal Firewall renders the issue moot with its directory
protection.

When coupled with the behavior-blocking system, you're protected to an
almost paranoid level.  It's very effective but it could confuse
some Web browsers if they expect to find a subdirectory and it suddenly
becomes inaccessible.

What this also means is that the Personal Firewall doesn't suffer fools
gladly. It has to be tweaked to be of maximum benefit. However, no
software of this nature is much different. Installing a powerful
security system on your PC makes no sense at all if you're a person
who can't remember a password or spell anything without making six typos.
Setting up directory protection so it was optimal and seamless in
operation took some fiddling and a couple of trips to EMD's Web page
before I had it completely figured out.

The Firewall provides some other nice security features.  For example,
to protect your PC in a semi-private setting or small home business
while you're off in the restroom or fetching coffee, you can just log
off. The Firewall will keep out the petty snoops and meddlers. You'll
have to enter your name and password before you can get anything back.

The Firewall also comes with an anti-virus scanner called QuikScan. It
is the weakest part of the package.  While it found most of the
viruses in my limited collection, it did miss a few common ones, primarily
polymorphic strains like the SMEG viruses. This makes me suspect that
the scanner is a simple string-search type, which is hardly cutting-edge
technology.  Testing it against several macro viruses also produced mixed
results: For example, it detected most Concept variants just fine, but 
missed an uncommon example, Bandung.

In summation, the Personal Firewall can be configured so tightly it's
perfect if you suspect you'll be spending a lot of time going in harm's
way in cyberspace.  However, constantly using it with maximum protection
enabled is confining. And the scanner needs work even though it's passable.
In truth, however, with everything else included in the package in proper
use, an anti-virus scanner isn't particularly valuable, anyway. The Internet
Security features are where the Personal Firewall really shines and
they make it well worth the asking price of $79.00 alone.  I do recommend
it.

Postscript:  As this issue went to the electronic presses EMD announced
that the next version of the program would enable Internet Security mode
automatically, activated the moment the user fires up any Internet
browser like Internet Explorer or Netscape.  That's not a bad idea.

[EMD Enterprises can be reached at (800) 8989-EMD or (717) 235-4423.
FAX number: (717) 227-9746; WWW Site URL -- http://www.emdent.com for
a demo version of the software.]


COMPUTER VIRUS HYSTERIA 1996: WINNERS DECLARED!

In the PUBLICITY category, corporations were the clear losers, er,
victors.  Nominees were chosen from absurd, lunatic or fraudulent
statements that resulted in overwhelming publicity for those
responsible for uttering them.

The voters tallied up for Symantec, casting 116 chits into the Norton
Anti-virus hat:

**Symantec is a bona fide bad actor when it comes to packaging
disinformational sales pitches as news about computer viruses. One
example of many cited in Virus Hysteria 1996 had to do with a
March press release describing a new Norton Anti-Virus feature:
the ability to detect Java viruses. However, the press release
admitted "no current Java virus threats exist." This led some
to question how you could test this feature to see if it really
worked.

Actually, it didn't matter since all the company was interested in
was publicity. The press release, you see, claimed Symantec customers
couldn't test it -- because the feature didn't yet exist in Norton
Anti-virus! Of course, "At the first sign of a Java virus threat,
Symantec will make this technology available to customers via an
immediate virus definition update . . ." the company warmly promised.

However, Virus Hysteria Awards voters weren't confused by Symantec's
contorted advertising and the company received a solid kick in the
pants marked by its large margin of victory over the other
nominees.


Runners-up:

2. CompUSA (71 votes).
3. Jack Brock, Government Accounting Office (53 votes).

Since the Government Accounting Office's information systems expert was
the highest scoring _individual_, the Virus Hysteria Awards committee
will be awarding the book allocated for the PUBLICITY category, Janet
Endrijonas' "Data Security" (Prima), to him.

In the cause of computer literacy, the judges felt this would be
more productive than hurling one into a mire of Symantec or CompUSA
pitchmen.

Sorry, no appeals.

4. Peter Harrison, Cheyenne (10 votes).


THE QUOTATION CATEGORY -- Nominees were chosen for well-publicized
quotes that, generally speaking, fit the following categories:
(1) brainless non sequiturs; (2) outright lies; (3) sales pitches
disguised as information; or (4) interesting combinations
of the first three.

**1. Ann Landers (73 votes)!

The well-known advice expert exchanged diatribes in her column with
U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy regarding the Internet. Leahy says he
regularly surfs the web; Landers admits she doesn't even own a
computer. But failure to own a computer doesn't detract from her
Internet expertise:

"I don't have to have a computer to know what's out there."

Ann Landers will be sent a copy of Dan Barrett's excellent book,
"Bandits on the Information Superhighway" (O'Reilly Assoc.).


Runners-up:


2. Brian Williams, MSNBC (62 votes):<P>

Of the Hare virus: "I'm scared to death that I'm going to
get this or, even worse, my computer . . ."

Doh!


3. Mark Clauder, CompUSA (48 votes):

"If you download your protection . . . you may not be protected
from the latest strains of a virus."


4. Richard M. Smith, Phar Lap (39 votes):

"Its the good time virus for real."


5. Rick Kreysar, McAfee Associates Dir. of Operations (26 votes):

"McAfee [Associates] has never been a company to hype viruses, and
I think it is a poor trend that is happening . . . in the last year."

This gem of mental nose-gold taken from an interview with the
McAfee Associates' Director of Operations was the judges' favorite.
However, it wasn't enough to make Kreysar a winner.


6. Larry Magid, consumer news cyber-pundit (5 votes):

"As far as I know, I've only twice been infected by viruses."

This from a column devoted to dispensing advice on getting rid of
computer viruses. Larry Magid: Threat or menace?


THE EVENT CATEGORY

Nominees were taken from the best junkfood computer news stories
of 1996.

**1. The winner by a whisker was . . . the Hare virus scare (114 votes)!

Runner-ups:


2. Java virus scare (113 votes).
3. Boza virus scare (23 votes).


SPECIAL "GERALDO RIVERA" AWARD FOR INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM

**1. And the winner is . . . Brian Williams, MSNBC (53 votes)!

Williams' eye-glazing TV chat with yet another Symantec salesperson
dressed up as a computer virus guru (Mary Engstrom) during the
assault of the dread Hare computer virus (our winner in the EVENT
category) was a clear winner over runner-up Stephen Pizzo's
"Millenium virus" junkfood news story in Web Review.

For the text of Williams' brain-froster, surf to www.kumite.com/myths .

Williams wins a copy of "Robert Slade's Guide to Computer Viruses"
(Springer).

Runners-up:

2. Stephen Pizzo, Web Review (42 votes).

3. United Press Int'l (37 votes).

4. James Daly, Ziff-Davis (32 votes).

5. Larry Seltzer, Ziff-Davis (31 votes).

6. Pittsburgh Business Wire (23 votes).

7. Jon Swartz, San Francisco Chronicle (22 votes).

Further comment Swartz' downright bizarre newspaper story that
showcased Aristotle's "Burma" virus and more Symantec salesmen
than you can shake a stick at can be read on this site:

http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt/other/symant2

Swartz's reporting was deemed so execrable by Virus Hysteria judges
he was awarded a book, even though finishing seventh in the tallying.
He will receive a copy of Stephen Cobb's "PC and LAN Security."

8. Lisa Carricaburu, Salt Lake City Tribune (8 votes).





LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
======================

A 'NETIZEN COMMENTS ON VIRUS HYSTERIA 1996 & THE INTERNET AS CONVEYANCE 
FOR INFO-RUBBISH

Crypt:

There is an editorial in the most recent Analog magazine pointing
out that Clarke's Law  -- any sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from magic -- is already in effect among modern
populations.  Most people have given up on understanding the
technology around them.  Unfortunately it did not, I think, mention
the real reason for this, and that is the very poor quality
of media coverage of science or technology.  Computer viruses
are only one example of media-induced hysteria about
technologic/scientific issues. Another is the environment.  A third
is medicine.  A recent example was the possible evidence of life
having existed at one time on Mars.

All it takes is one study to suggest that maybe x might be related
to y, and the next thing you know the press have gone to town.  That
is because the job of a newspaper/TV station/radio station is not
to inform folks, but to make money -- and scare headlines sell.
There is no money in publicizing ten studies saying that the zebra
mussels did not destroy the Great Lakes (they did not), or that most
folks in North America die of old age (they do), or that the
Copenhagen interpretation of Quantum reality is only a theory (with
ever more problems for which its adherents must invent even more
bizarre explanations).

The problem is that most folk have no alternate source of information.
For all the hype about the Internet setting information free, all
it has done is turn into another mass medium for circulating hysteria.

My personal suspicion is that hysteria is ingrained in the human psyche.
And, maybe hysteria about computer viruses is less destructive than older
forms that burned strange old women as witches, or ruined the careers of
suspected Commies.

I look forward to the final tally.

-Gamin

[Check the results published in this issue, Gamin!]


JACK BROCK, GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTING OFFICE, RESPONDS TO HIS NOMINATION
IN VIRUS HYSTERIA 1996

Crypt:

I read -- with some amusement -- my nomination to receive a 1996 Virus
Hysteria Award in the hotly contested publicity category.  Hopefully, by
being first on the ballot, I'll receive additional votes and be able to
pick up a prize.

A couple of points of clarification.  First, the objective of our report
and subsequent testimony was to provide an overview of the Defense
Department's vulnerability to unauthorized access to their unclassified
computer systems.  The fact that such vulnerability exists is, in fact,
well documented by the Department's own internal assessments.  Such
vulnerability extends far beyond the potential damage that might be
perpetuated by a virus attack.  In fact, our report focused more on the
damage that could be done by authorized persons accessing
[sensitive] information and inappropriately using or altering
such information.

Second, as I recall our conversation. Your primary interest in the
report was further information on those countries having an ability to
initiate attacks against computer systems throughout the world.  Our
report stated an NSA position that 125 nations possess this capability.
You wanted more specifics on the extent of that capability and which
countries had been identified as threats.  As I related to you, this
information is classified by NSA.  Since NSA did not provide such
information to GAO -- nor did we request it -- there was no need to be
sworn "to secrecy".


[Enjoy your "Virus Hysteria Award" book. It's on its way.  See the
related story in this issue on the awards and winners.]


MYTHS AND BOGEYMEN ARE A PART OF MAINSTREAM AMERICA'S CYBER-WORLDVIEW

Crypt:

I read with pleasure your [pre-print] article . . . about the lack of
knowledge some of our federal law enforcement agencies that shall remain
shamefully nameless have about computers viruses, and maybe computers
in general ("FBI Law & Enforcement Bulletin gulled by 'Net joke")
which was reposted with a link to your site in the C4I mailing
list.

Now that I've found your site I am enjoying more. Thanks for the good 
work. The site goes to the top of my book marks.

A comment: There seems to be a general pattern of mythologies present in
every society which are usually not acknowledged by its members but stands
out glaringly to non-members of the group. Such ideas as the ghost in the
road common to many cultures or the vigilante-cowboy-superman particular
to American culture. The boogey-entity idea has a pattern unique to itself
which can be classified as a new archetype. What was known as the deadly
invisible spirit is later the lethal microbe and comes now as the
insidious computer virus. One cannot blame the believer for claiming the
sky is falling. They are too much a part of their own worldview. To them
the sky falls. (Reference to Jon Swartz in the SF Chronicle fnord).

Wasn't Bulgaria part of Vlad Drakul's empire?

It is so sad that such a pathetic show can be so much fun.

Regards,

Judge

-=The Crypt Newsletter welcomes thoughtful mail from readers at
crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu. Published letters may be edited for length
and clarity or anonymized to protect the naive from themselves.=-





REACHING CRYPT NEWSLETTER


Send software, books, subscription orders ($10.00/year) to:

                George Smith
                Crypt Newsletter
                1635 Wagner St.
                Pasadena, CA 91106

E-mail: crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu or 70743.1711@compuserve.com


CRYPT NEWSLETTER HYPERTEXT

If you're reading this, you don't have it.

 NOTE====>Crypt Hypertext can be bought with your favorite plastic.
 VISA/MASTERCARD orders can be placed with COMSEC, Ltd., in
 Glenview, Illinois.<====NOTE

 Ordering by phone:

 1-800-754-8214
 1-847-729-3565
 fax: 1-847-729-3575

 Price: $30.00 + $4.00 shipping

 In addition, Crypt Hypertext can be registered through Compuserve's
 on-line SWREG service.

 To purchase a copy of Crypt Hypertext through your CompuServe account
 simply use the GO menu and enter the keyword: SWREG. You will
 be presented with a menu to identify your geographic location.
 When prompted to search the software database enter the number:
 # 9228 or the name CRYPT NEWSLETTER HYPERTEXT V. 1.0 and provide
 the requested information.

 You will receive a copy of Crypt Hypertext through US Mail.

 Operating Systems - DOS, WINDOWS

 Cost: $30.00 + $4.00 shipping and handling in US, Canada and Mexico.
              + $8.00 shipping and handling worldwide.

 The database contains not only Crypt Newsletter 1992 - 95
 but also a great deal of additional material and unpublished notes.
 Where appropriate, additions have also been made to old
 issues and articles to provide current perspective and background.

 The database also contains a keyworded glossary and extensive
 subject index spanning the length and breadth of the newsletter.
 Cut and paste any information to your customized specification.

 In the database you'll find comprehensive stories, tutorials
 and news on:

 --the computer virus underground and virus-writers

 --the anti-virus industry

 --on-line culture and sociology

 --book reviews of current titles in security

 --annals of computer crime & computer virus spread

 --virus descriptions and history

 --walkthrough simulations, imagery and displays - aural and visual -
   from computer viruses and controversial virus-making software
   toolkits

 --discussion of legal issues with regard to computer viruses and
   related computer crime

 --extensive companion material for the author's book, "The Virus
   Creation Labs"

 --review of the mainstream media: the shams and scams reported as
   real news. Take a skeptic's look at the information highway!

   The Crypt Newsletter database is also extensible.  Future
   hypertext issues, distributed through CIS forums, can easily be
   copied to the database's directory on your home computer and
   seamlessly integrated into the collection.


   The complete index of topics 1992 - 96 is on the Crypt News
   Web page:

                 http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt



                CRYPT HYPERTEXT ORDER FORM
---------------------------------------------------------
By Mail:

Return this form along with your remittance to:

COMSEC Ltd.
1545 Waukegan Road Suite 2
Glenview, Illinois 60025-2143

Orders:  800-754-8214
Support: 847-729-3565
Fax:     847-729-3575

Questions To: crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu
              70743.1711@compuserve.com

ORDER:

[ ]  ____    Crypt Hypertext(s) @ $30.00 each.

[ ] Regular mail shipping, please add $4.00.

[ ] US Priority Mail, please add $6.00.


Checks and money orders must be in U.S. dollars drawn on a U.S. bank.
Do Not Enclose Cash.

Total enclosed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $______________

Payment by:  [] Check  [] Money Order

SHIP TO:

Name _____________________________________________________

Address 1 ________________________________________________

Address 2 ________________________________________________

City __________________________ State/Province ___________

Zip/Postal Code ________________ Country _________________

Telephone (______)________________________________________




CRYPT ON COMPUSERVE

Crypt Newsletter is now concentrated in two places on Compuserve.
GO CRYPTNEWS brings the user to dedicated Crypt Newsletter message
and file bases!  For example, in addition to the usual issues Crypt
maintains copies of electronic documents like the Federation of
American Scientists' Secrecy & Government Bulletin and the recent GAO
report on hacking incidents at Department of Defense.

GO NCSAFORUM will bring users into the National Computer Security
Association Infosec forum.  This forum features a great deal of specific
and general information on computer security as well as Crypt Newsletter
in its attached file libraries and message bases.


CRYPT NEWSLETTER WORLD WIDE WEB HOME PAGE

You can visit Crypt & The Virus Creation Labs on the
World Wide Web, download back issues and sample a chapter
from VCL!

Set your browser to:

URL: http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt


----------------------------------------------------------------
What?  You've been reading Crypt Newsletter regularly and you
haven't purchased a copy of "The Virus Creation Labs"??

Well, what are you waiting for?  A gold-plated personal invitation?

What people are saying about THE VIRUS CREATION LABS:

     "Crypt Newsletter editor George C. Smith's entire book exposes an
     insane world where everybody claws at each others' throats -- and
     where even the virus writers have marketing departments. 172 pages
     written with an utterly cynical sense of humor . . . This book gets
     my highest recommendation. Required reading for anybody
     who claims the sky is falling in the computer world."

                      ---Rob Rosenberger, Computer Virus Myths,
                         October 1996

     "I couldn't stop reading it . . . As hype continues to
     build about security on the Internet and movies like
     _Hackers_ ooze the real hackers into the mainstream arena,
     this book is definite apropos material for the time.
     Read it! A+"
                      ---The Net magazine, February 1996


     "[VIRUS CREATION LABS] is informative and stunningly
     incisive . . . "
                      ---Secure Computing, October 1995

     "George Smith . . . takes a look at the world of virus writers
     and anti-virus software vendors in a style similar to that
     of 'Cyberpunks' -- anecdotal, humorous and revealing . . . a
     lucid and entertaining read."

                      ---Computer Security Journal


     "There are relatively few books on the 'computer underground' that
     provide richly descriptive commentary and analysis of personalities
     and culture that simultaneously grab the reader with entertaining
     prose. Among the classics are Cliff Stoll's 'The Cuckoo's Egg,'
     Katie Hafner and John Markoff's 'Cyberpunk,' and Bruce
     Sterling's 'The Hacker Crackdown.'  Add George Smith's
     'The Virus Creation Labs' to the list . . . 'Virus Creation
     Labs' is about viruses as M*A*S*H is about war!"

                       ---Jim Thomas, Computer underground
                       Digest 7.18, March 5, 1995

     "THE VIRUS CREATION LABS dives into the hoopla of the Michelangelo
     media blitz and moves on to become an engaging, articulate,
     wildly angry diatribe on the world of computer virus writers . . .
     Expert reporting."
                      ---McClatchy NewsWire

-------------------------order form-------------------------

Yes, I want my wig flipped and wish to receive a copy of George
Smith's "The Virus Creation Labs: A Journey Into the Underground"
(American Eagle, ISBN 0-929408-09-8).

   Price: $12.95/copy plus $2.50 shipping per book (add $7.50 overseas)

   NAME: _____________________________________________

   ADDRESS: __________________________________________

   CITY/STATE/ZIP: __________________________________

   Payment method:

   ___ Master Charge

   ___ Money Order

   ___ Check

   ___ Visa

   Credit Card # ___________________________________________

   Expiration date _________________________________________

   Name: ____________________________

   Orders can be taken by voice or fax through regular phone
   number and/or 1-800 number in USA.  COD welcome.

   American Eagle: 1-800-719-4957
                   1-520-367-1621
                   POB 1507
                   Show Low, AZ 85901


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
===============
Rob Rosenberger, editor/webmaster of Virus Myths.  Visit --
http://www.kumite.com/myths for a savage read.


-------------------------------------------------------------
George Smith, Ph.D., edits the Crypt Newsletter from Pasadena,
CA.

copyright 1997 Crypt Newsletter. All rights reserved.
