::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Dec/98
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 1 - File 10:::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Conclusion:

 Well that about wraps it up for the second ever issue of the
DoJ. December is here and Christmas is on the way. Our special
Christmas issue is now over. How was it special you might ask.
And the answer is that we managed to stick it for our second
release.

 This issue saw two new additions to the staff. Digital Avatar
is an English hacker who will be interviewed in the next issue
and Kleptic is an American hacker.  Digital will be helping us
by gathering future articles and advertising. Kleptic is our
in-house writer in his words. He has a column in this issue and
will continue to have a regular column in future issues.

 The competitions that we spoke of in the last issue went ahead
with medium interest. We had several submissions of ASCII art 
and for the Cheesy ASCII Art competition we are pleased to 
announce that Crystal_Meth is the Winner. She will placed on 
our Discordant Hall of Fame for her ASCII Ass which you can 
see in File 9 - The Viewing Public, we believe that is might be
a self-portrait. Our other competition Stalk the Staff was 
unfortunately a bit of a failure and The Editors hereby blame 
the state of modern education for the lack of decent stalkers. 
And Bedlam will be glad to hear that as he was the only
stalker Rue received  so he is the winner of this competition. 
And between you and me, even if there were other Stalkers, Bedlam
would still have been the scariest.

 The next issue will be just as exciting as this one. There will
be the usual mix of hacking texts, fiction, Underground files and
humour if we get creative. As always, your submissions are needed
stories, poetry, hacking, phreaking, anarchy or even art for the
website. Be sure to drop by http://www.rue-the-day.net/discordia
for updates on the next release. And contact us with ideas or 
comments and especially submissions at discordia@rue-the-day.net.

 As ever, there is a long list of people to thank for their help
in this issue. Procon, Bedlam, Aspodf, ethercat, rOTTEN, Defiant,
and Vortex-UK. Also shouts go out to; Evilpinky, Sat|n, Redvixen,
Gryfyn and also Phoenix. Culturally we were nudged into action 
by; Therapy, Garbage, Cyprus Hill, Mad Dog and Glory, and The 
Day the World Stood Still.

 Till next time Folks...

 Hail Discordia !

 Cronus and Rue-the-Day
 Editors
