::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Dec/98
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 1 - File 4 :::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Interview with Kleptic:

Kleptic is a hacker who hangs out on Dalnet and now the latest addition to the DoJ Staff as an in-house writer. 

DoJ: Introduce yourself then...
Kleptic: Kleptic, just plain old Kleptic.

DoJ: What is your main area of interest ?
Kleptic: Hacking/phreaking.. and writing..

DoJ: How did you get involved in the h/p culture ?
Kleptic: My friend 'Agent_X' was into the underground allot when we were younger.. and he introduced me..

DoJ: What was your first underground experience ?
Kleptic: My first "true" underground experience was when I attended a 2600 meeting in Detroit.. I learned allot there.. I met some interesting people.. 

DoJ: How long have you been involved ?
Kleptic: I've been involved for about 6 years..

DoJ: If you could, what would you like to 'clean up' online ?
Kleptic: What do you mean by clean up?

DoJ: Correct, make better, help change.
Kleptic: Well, I'd like to bring back all the 'old school' techniques with hacking.. like sharing info.. and not keeping it to your self. I like free speech.. that's a good thing, but I'd like to kick all those paedophiles asses!

DoJ: Where do you think the online culture has improved since you started ?
Kleptic: Its improved in technology.. like the improvements with Microsoft.. Like before they sucked.. but now they still suck.. but there improving.. there cutting down on bugs.. and tightening up on the Y2K crisis..

DoJ: Now the crunch, what have you done to improve things ?
Kleptic: I try to stay with the 'old school' hacker culture.. and share knowledge.. and not keep it all to myself.. 

DoJ: Do you believe you have old school ethics ?
DoJ: Kinda.. I try to be an individual.. and not what others want me to be..

DoJ: What would you credit as the most advanced thing you have done and you don't have to incriminate yourself with too much detail unless of course you want to...
Kleptic: Well, I was with PARA (people against racist assholes) when we all did the LAPD hack.. they wasn't really advanced.. but it got us into some trouble.. which I don't really want to get into, but it was fun! Probably a hi-point in my life

DoJ: Have you ever been involved in any other anti-something groups and which ?
Kleptic: Yes, I was part of ARA (Anti Racist Action).

DoJ: You feel strongly against racists ? Enough to devote your time then ?
Kleptic: Yes... I just don't understand why people think that there race is so powerful, that they have to overcome other races.. I think that's just lame.

DoJ: What are your feelings toward more anti-social hacking techniques such as virus writing and DoS attacks ?
Kleptic: Virus writing is only something someone does when they have no life.. like the Michelangelo virus.. the person who wrote that must of had no life at all.. and he infected tons of computers back in 1992.. I'm really into Virus History.. Mostly virii and DoS attacks are up there with nuking and shit.. has nothing to do with hacking.

Cronus: I disagree. I am very interested in DoS attacks. And not just oob nukes but much more advanced attacks.
Kleptic: Yeah true...

Cronus: But this isn't really my interview...
Kleptic: <laugh>

DoJ: What is your opinion on freedom of information and knowledge ?
Kleptic: We should be free to talk about whatever we want.. and be able to share knowledge without being harassed by authorities..

DoJ: Do you not feel that national security should be taken as more important then a private conversation ?
Kleptic: I understand that if the government wants to hide valuable info on like bombs and shit.. so people won't go out and kill each other.. but I mean.. if there I like other life in the universe.. they should tell us.. there hiding way too much..

DoJ: <laugh> On that same topic, how paranoid are you that the government might be listening in on your phone line or net connection ?
Kleptic: I don't think they are, cause if they were I wouldn't be talking to you right now I would probably be in jail somewhere in Jackson State Penn..

DoJ: So you have no fear of modern US government anti-hacker technology ? Listening stations or ISP monitoring ?
Kleptic: Yea, I have a fear of it.. I try not to think of it much..

DoJ: Different topic now, have you ever-spent time in jail for anything and what was it for ?
Kleptic: I was in jail over night for that PARA thing.. but I was only 16 at the time.. 

DoJ: And lastly - do you have a quote you would like to be remembered by ?
*After some thought*
Kleptic: The internet is just an anagram for "I'm sitting on a huge wispy rhino fart" 

http://sol98.dyn.ml.org/kleptic/
kleptic@grex.org
