   This little contribution is dedicated to the eternal memory of THE DARK
                                   AVENGER
      (dedicaded to probaly upcoming 26th birthday of this legend ( or
                                 Diana's ? )
        [ Text in these two lines above is pure speculation. Editor ]

       When somebody says computer virus, it 'll not take a long time to
       say the name Dark Avenger. You ask why ? If you do not know, you
       probably suffer of demencia or something like it. You should know,
       that Dark Avenger is the best known virus writer since the whole
       the vx scene started in late '80ties.


       Its well known, that Dark Avenger is native Bulgarian, from the
       town of Sofia, and fan of the band Iron Maiden. But, probably, the
       only one, who knows Dark Avenger's real identity is Dark Avenger
       himself. There were some rumors, that the real name of Dark Avenger
       is Vesselin Bontchev, who now resides "on some lonely island in the
       northern Atlantic", but Mr.Bontchev, as well as the Dark Avenger,
       both 're of the same opinion:

                          Bontchev != Dark Avenger
         [reason in Bontchev's case is very easy to understand.:) ]
       It's also well know, that relationship of Dark Avenger to Vesselin
       could be described as disrespect, resp. very negative. At least one
       of variants of Dark Avenger virus targets programs cointaining
       string 'Vesselin Bontchev' and causes system hang if such a
       programm is run. Moreover, sometines Dark Avenger did use
       expression " the weassel " when he talked about Bontchev. But we
       have to say without Bontchev, there would be Dark Avenger not so
       "popular" and well known in the whole world. In the fact, Bontchev
       is the man, who's responsible for the worldwide publicity of Dark
       Avenger. The legend himself claimed, Bontchev made him to Dark
       Avenger. Moreover, it should be Bontschev, who engouraged people to
       create viruses by some of his articles and publications. According
       to Dark Avenger, some stuff written by Bontchev can be a good
       tutorial for those people, who want to code viruses and have no
       other information available.


   But as I don't want to come off the topic, here is brief history of
       Dark Avenger's cariees as virus writer.


       Some 9 or 10 years ago, when there was not such a lot of viruses
       out, one young Bulgarian boy was interesting in rather mysterious
       and not so well known area in computer science - the viruses. He
       thought of "making a programm that would travel on its own .. and
       to get to the places its creatore could never go". After reading an
       articles which discussed computer viruses he decided to write such
       a piece of code. He started work on his first virus in September
       1988. Ocassionally he had access to an 4.77 MHz XT with no hardisk.
       As he finished the virus, he added destructive code in it, becauses
       he had no idea, what else should he put in. He thought, the virus
       'll never travel outside the city. Errare humanum est - to make
       errors is human. Dark Avenger was wrong in this case. His 651 bytes
       long virus, which cointained string 'Eddie lives' arrived in spring
       1989 to the USA.


       Technically, the Eddie.651 virus is simple TSR with hooked INT 21h,
       infecting both EXE and COM files on their execution. Infected file
       is marked within the timestamp - the value of the second is set to
       value 62. Besides INT 21h function EXEC virus hooks also the
       funcions FIND_FIRST_FCB and FIND_NEXT_FCB. These functions are
       called on DOS command DIR. And if such a call occurs, the virus
       subtract from size of the file with the second field in timestamp
       set to 62 its size. As virus doesn't check the size of such a file,
       if the file is smaller than 651 bytes, DIR shows filesize in
       gigabytes range. Virus cointains, as said before, string 'Eddie
       lives'.


       Next Dark Avenger's production is well know - the Dark Avenger
       virus family with members 1800, 2000 and 2100 bytes long. All 3
       members of this family are residen Com'n'Exe infectors. New idea in
       this family was the "fast infector" - files were infected not only
       when execuded, but also when opening, closing, changing attributes
       and creating. Not so new was the payload - when some condition were
       met, virus overwrites sectors at harddisk at random. Really cruel.
       There were also some texts in this viruses...
       [ofcos, every virus should have some texts, othervise it gets name
       like 4096 or 193257609 :) ]


       Dark Avenger.1800:
Eddie lives...somewhere in time
This program was written in the city of Sofia (C) 1988-89 Dark Avenger
       As described above, Dark Avenger loves Vesselin Bontchev so much,
       that he included in Dark Avenger.2000 following lovely text string:
(C) 1989 by Vesselin Bontchev


       And as the final nail, if programm to be run contains string
       "Vesselin Bontchev", virus hangs the system. In my humble opinion,
       Dark Avenger tried here to make Bontchev's live to hell with such a
       overkill payload. Ofcos, the nice stuff with trashing sectors on
       the harddisk has not been removed from the viral code. As for the
       2100 bytes variant, it has some improvements in hiding the size
       increase of infected programs and so. Sources released by the
       author are included in this issue of our zine.


       After some time, Dark Avenger released something absolutely unknown
       to the world. His another first was the hyped Mte - first ever poly
       engine.

            [Washburn's "excercises" i do not count, sorry ... ]


       Polymorphism was something new at such a level [ :) ]. Mr. Skulason
       ( if i remember, responsible for fuckprot or whatsoever) wrote in
       Virus Bulletin in April '92 that Mte should be "a torture test for
       R&D departaments of all the antivirus companies". Moreover editor
       of the Virus Bulletin noticed that "Dark Avenger tech support is
       presumably better than offered by certain anti-virus vendors". He
       he he : )))))))
       There were two releases of the Mte. In August 1991 was released Mte
       0.91 and in April 1992 was released Mte 1.00 . The antivirus
       vendors were long time not able to detect Mte with 100%
       reliability. Detection rates were from 0% in case of Xtree's
       Allsafe v.4.1 or even worse, hanging the computer in case of CPAV
       and CPAVSOS v.14 to full 100% detection in case of IBM antivirus,
       F-prot, TBAV and many others.


       Another Dark Avenger's first in the world was the COMMANDER BOMBER
       virus. In the time of its appearence, substantial part of AV
       programs didn't follow the code flow, just scaned for signatures
       near the file beginning and the file end. And now imagine the
       suprising of that so called virus researchers, that some blody
       virus is out which is not only inserted somewhere in the middle of
       the file, but also couple of island of code bound with calls and
       jmps leads to the virus body. [ I would like to see their faces in
       that historical moment ]. But in medias res .... COMMANDER BOMBER
       is inserting COM infector. Its own body is 22596 bytes long, but
       the added code is acually 4096 bytes long. Virus infects COM files
       on their execution, if their size is greater that 5120 bytes and
       less than 61183 bytes. COMMAND.??? 'll be never infected. Virus
       selects in the file 4 KB long block an this block is appended to
       the file. In this gap 'll be placed the viral code. Then virus
       generates some kind of garbage code, which brings the processing to
       the main virus code. Then only thing what garbage generation
       watches is the stack and SP value. But, unfortunately, garbage code
       generation seems to be buggy. ( about 1 of 8 samples generated not
       able to work ). This may be also the reason, why COMMANDER BOMBER
       wasn't so successfull when we compare with other Dark Avenger's
       viruses. This virus has also another interesting feature -
       absolutely no signature in files. But the files do not become
       infected over and over again. This is handled but very siple trick.
       When intected file is to be executed, virus saves its memory image
       to disk and then repares and execudes it. So if the file is
       infected twice, second infection rebuilds the file as it was with
       only one infection. And this firs infection saves to disk file
       infected only one. It is very handy trick, and you can try to code
       something like this.... Just for your information, Jim Bates, the
       man which is probably responsible for Black Baron of England (aka
       Christopher Pile) fate, had the feeling that "althoug there are
       similarities of style, ... [stuff deleted] ... that code is beyond
       his [ Dark Avenger's ] limited capabilities."


       In my humble opinion, COMMANDER BOMBER has two main weak points.
       The first weak point is the garbage generation. Invalid opcodes are
       not very good in virus code, everyone should avoid them. Otherwise,
       there is ABSOLUTELY no change to enter the "In the wild list".
       The second weak point of this virus is the lack of encryption or
       poly engine. It could be a very heavy to defeat virus, if the Dark
       Aveger combined Mte polymorphism and the COMMANDER BOMBER midfile
       infection. But viruses of the later years used such a combination
       and this leads to very successful One_Half virus by Vyvojar.
       Sources are included in this issue.
       But, as not everyone has the necessary abilities, *-Zine is proud
       to present you the dizzasembly of this famous virus. Enjoy it.
       Download attached files here    [1][deaddisk.gif]


       Resources used to write this article:

   [art_dot.gif] brain
       [art_dot.gif] own archive
       [art_dot.gif] old issues of Virus Bulletin
       [art_dot.gif] Cicatrix's VDAT 1.8, which is quit good IMHO
       [art_dot.gif] interview with Dark Avenger by Sara Gordon
       [art_dot.gif] 1 pizza from my favourite pizzeria
       [art_dot.gif] 2 bottles of beer
       [art_dot.gif] 1 pack of chips


       Author is not resposible for the bugs in the article. Moreover
       author in not responsible at all.
       Especially 4 Sara G. : What a fuck was the joke with anorak ?


       This article is (c) 1997 by the *-Zine. All it's use in whatever
       form is prohibited without explicit written permission of the
       *-Zine stuff members. Eventual violation of this restriction will
       be subject to prosecution. All the legal costs of the *-Zine stuff
       'll be payed by the prosecuded.


Références

   1. dl/darkaven.zip
