                                   Final Notes
                                       By
                                   Horny Toad



	
     Well, I hope that this first edition of the Codebreakers has been helpful.  My goals in creating 
this magazine were to teach beginners the absolute basics of virus writing.  Along the way, I also 
wanted to convey the psyche of the virus writer through our commentaries, so that the beginner 
will start to understand us, and hopefully, become one of us.  Each of the future issues will 
increase in difficulty, but all of them will still have an easy to understand format.  

In the future issues, look to see articles/tutorials on:

     *Exec infectors
     *Memory Resident Virii
     *Stealth Techniques
     *Macintosh Virii!!!	
     *Encryption
     *Polymorphic Engines
     *Infecting Windows 95 and 98
     *Macro Virii
     *Pulitzer Prize winning commentaries
     *and many other virus topics


I am accepting articles to be published in future editions of the Codebreakers.  If you have 
something to say or a technique that you would like to teach, by all means send it to me.  As long 
as it is not too outrageous I will include it in the mag. Also, if there is any beginners that would 
like to share their experiences with virus writing, I would really like to share them and put them 
in the mag. 

We are also looking for experienced hackers and virus writers to join the Codebreakers.  We are a 
small group of misfits trying our best to promote the art of virus writing and hacking.  Our 
primary goal is the education of the masses and the discovery of new techniques, while having a 
damn good time.  If you think you have what it takes to become one of us, visit our site at 
codebreakers.simplenet.com. Be prepared for the infamous test!  Seriously, if you are a code 
wizard and want to join, get in touch with us.  If you are a newcomer to the fantastic world of 
virus writing and think that you have something to offer us, by all means, get in touch with us.  
We are happy to hear from all.

Best of luck programming new creations!

Horny Toad


