CRYPT NEWSLETTER 38
July-August 1996

Editor: Urnst Kouch (George Smith, Ph.D.)
Media Critic: Mr. Badger (Andy Lopez)
INTERNET: 70743.1711@compuserve.com
          crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu

NOTE: Subscriptions to Crypt Newsletter can now be
had for $10 US for one year.  Checks and money orders
to the editor at 1635 Wagner Street, Pasadena, CA 91106
along with a current electronic mail address where you
wish to receive your issues of Crypt Newsletter.

Crypt Newsletter articles may not be reproduced in or on
other media without consent of the editor. Rates based on
word count are reasonable. Queries by e-mail are welcome.

----------------------------------------------------------
REACHING CRYPT NEWSLETTER

Get your books, philosophies, rants, products, information, 
software and hardware in front of browsers from organizations 
like Loral, Lockheed, MITRE Corporation, NASA-JPL, Electronic Data 
Systems, Intel, Science Applications, Unisys, the World Bank, 
Fujitsu, DuPont, many anonymous U.S. military sites, newspaper and 
magazine journalists as well as free-lance writers. Every month.

Send review hardware/software/books/materiel to:

                George Smith, Editor
                Crypt Newsletter
                1635 Wagner St.
                Pasadena, CA 91106

------------------------------------------------------------------

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ Contents: Crypt Newsletter #38      ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

 THIS ISSUE
NEWS
The Info-Warriors: Richard Pryce and Mathew Bevan's excellent adventure
John Alexander watch: Poker in the rear of the flying saucer, Part II
Computer virus book to sell for $395.00
The Kaiser of Microsoft speaks from an aircraft carrier
SOFTWARE
Some not so obvious DOS business in Windows95
MISCELLANY
  Letters page
  Crypt Newsletter Hypertext
  Crypt Masthead Info
  Credits/Acknowledgment


THE INFO-WARRIORS: BRITISH HACKERS BECOME POSTER BOYS FOR U.S.
GOVERNMENT AGENTS PARANOID ABOUT FOREIGN CONSPIRACIES

Electronic doom will soon be visited on U.S. computer networks by
information warriors, hackers, pannational groups of computer-wielding
religious extremists, possible agents of Libya and Iran, international 
thugs and money-mad Internet savvy thieves.

John Deutch, director of Central Intelligence, testified to the
truth of the matter, so it must be graven in stone. In a long statement
composed in the august tone of the Cold Warrior, Deutch said to the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on June 25, "My greatest
concern is that hackers, terrorist organizations, or other nations might
use information warfare techniques" to disrupt the national
infrastructure.

"Virtually any 'bad actor' can acquire the hardware and software
needed to attack some of our critical information-based infrastructures.
Hacker tools are readily available on the Internet, and hackers
themselves are a source of expertise for any nation or foreign
terrorist organization that is interested in developing an information
warfare capability. In fact, hackers, with or without their full
knowledge, may be supplying advice and expertise to rogue states such
as Iran and Libya."

In one sentence, the head of the CIA cast hackers -- from those more
expert than Kevin Mitnick to AOLHell-wielding idiots calling an America
On-Line overseas account -- as pawns of perennial international bogeymen,
Libya and Iran.

Scrutiny of the evidence that led to this conclusion was not possible 
since it was classified, according to Deutch.

" . . . we have [classified] evidence that a number of countries
around the world are developing the doctrine, strategies, and tools
to conduct information attacks," said Deutch.

Catching glimpses of shadowy enemies at every turn, Deutch
characterized them as operating from the deep cover of classified
programs in pariah states.  Truck bombs aimed at the telephone
company, electronic assaults by "paid hackers" are likely to
be part of the arsenal of anyone from the Lebanese Hezbollah
to "nameless . . . cells of international terrorists such as those
who attacked the World Trade Center."

Quite interestingly, a Minority Staff Report entitled "Security and
Cyberspace" and presented to the subcommittee around the same time as
Deutch's statement, presented a different picture.  In its attempt to
raise the alarm over hacker assaults on the U.S., it inadvertently
portrayed the intelligence community responsible for appraising the
threat as hidebound stumblebums, Cold Warriors resistant to change and
ignorant or indifferent to the technology of computer networks and their
misuse.

Written by Congressional staff investigators Dan Gelber and Jim Christy, 
the report quotes an unnamed member of the intelligence  community likening 
threat assessment in the area to "a toddler soccer game, where everyone 
just runs around trying to kick the ball somewhere."  Further, assessment 
of the threat posed by information warriors was "not presently a priority 
of our nation's intelligence and enforcement communities."

The report becomes more comical with briefings from intelligence
agencies said to be claiming that the threat of hackers and information
warfare is "substantial" but completely unable to provide a concrete
assessment of the threat because few or no personnel were working on
the subject under investigation. "One agency assembled [ten] individuals
for the Staff briefing, but ultimately admitted that only one person was
actually working 'full time' on intelligence collection and threat
analysis," write Gelber and Christy.

The CIA is one example.

"Central Intelligence Agency . . . staffs an 'Information Warfare
Center'; however, at the time of [the] briefing, barely a handful
of persons were dedicated to collection and on [sic] defensive
information warfare," comment the authors.

" . . . at no time was any agency able to present a national threat
assessment of the risk posed to our information infrastructure," they
continue. Briefings on the subject, if any and at any level of
classification, "consisted of extremely limited anecdotal information."

Oh no, John, say it ain't so!

The minority report continues to paint a picture of intelligence agencies
that have glommed onto the magic words "information warfare" and
"hackers" as mystical totems, grafting the subjects onto "pre-existing"
offices or new "working groups." However, the operations are based only
on labels. "Very little prioritization" has been done, there are
few analysts working on the subjects in question.

Another "very senior intelligence officer for science and technology"
is quoted claiming "it will probably take the intelligence community
years to break the traditional paradigms, and re-focus resources"
in the area.

Restated, intelligence director Deutch pronounced in June there was 
classified evidence that hackers are in league with Libya and Iran and 
that countries around the world are plotting plots to attack the U.S. 
through information warfare.  But the classified data is and was, at best, 
anecdotal gossip -- hearsay, bullshit -- assembled by perhaps a handful of 
individuals working haphazardly inside the labyrinth of the intelligence 
community. There is no real threat assessment to back up the Deutch 
claims.  Can anyone say _bomber gap_?

The lack of solid evidence for any of the claims made by the intelligence
community has created an unusual stage on which two British hackers,
Datastream Cowboy and Kuji, were made the dog and pony in a ridiculous
show to demonstrate the threat of information warfare to members of
Congress.  Because of a break-in at an Air Force facility in Rome, NY,
in 1994, both hackers were made the stars of two Government Accounting
Office reports on network intrusions in the Department of Defense earlier
this year.  The comings and goings of Datastream Cowboy also constitute the
meat of Gelber and Christy's minority staff report from the Subcommittee on
Investigations.

Before delving into it in detail, it's interesting to read what a
British newspaper published about Datastream Cowboy, a sixteen year-old,
about a year before he was made the poster boy for information
warfare and international hacking conspiracies in front of Congress.

In a brief article, blessedly so in contrast to the reams of propaganda
published on the incident for Congress, the July 5 1995 edition of The
Independent wrote, "[Datastream Cowboy] appeared before Bow Street
magistrates yesterday charged with unlawfully gaining access to a series
of American defense computers. Richard Pryce, who was 16 at the time of
the alleged offences, is accused of accessing key US Air Force systems
and a network owned by Lockheed, the missile and aircraft manufacturers."

Pryce, a resident of a northwest suburb of London did not enter a plea
on any of 12 charges levied against him under the British
Computer Misuse Act.  He was arrested on May 12, 1994, by New Scotland
Yard as a result of work by the U.S. Air Force Office of Special
Investigations.  The Times of London reported when police came for
Pryce, they found him at his PC on the third floor of his family's house.
Knowing he was about to be arrested, he "curled up on the floor and cried."

In Gelber and Christy's staff report, the tracking of Pryce, and to a
lesser extent a collaborator called Kuji -- real name Mathew Bevan, is
retold as an eight page appendix entitled "The Case Study: Rome
Laboratory, Griffiss Air Force Base, NY Intrusion."

Pryce's entry into Air Force computers was noticed on March 28, 1994,
when personnel discovered a sniffer program he had installed on one
of the Air Force systems in Rome.  The Defense Information System
Agency (DISA) was notified.  DISA subsequently called the Air
Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) at the Air Force
Information Warfare Center in San Antonio, Texas. AFOSI then
sent a team to Rome to appraise the break-in, secure the system and
trace those responsible.  During the process, the AFOSI team discovered
Datastream Cowboy had entered the Rome Air Force computers for the
first time on March 25, according to the report.  Passwords had been
compromised, electronic mail read and deleted and unclassified
"battlefield simulation" data copied off the facility. The
Rome network was also used as a staging area for penetration of other
systems on the Internet.

AFOSI investigators initially traced the break-in back one step to
the New York City provider, Mindvox. According to the Congressional
report, this put the NYC provider under suspicion because "newspaper
articles" said Mindvox's computer security was furnished by two "former
Legion of Doom members." "The Legion of Doom is a loose-knit computer
hacker group which had several members convicted for intrusions into
corporate telephone switches in 1990 and 1991," wrote Gelber and Christy.

AFOSI then got permission to begin monitoring -- the equivalent of
wiretapping -- all communications on the Air Force network.  Limited
observation of other Internet providers being used during the break-in
was conducted from the Rome facilities.  Monitoring told the investigators
the handles of hackers involved in the Rome break-in were Datastream
Cowboy and Kuji.

Since the monitoring was of limited value in determining the whereabouts
of Datastream Cowboy and Kuji, AFOSI resorted to "their human intelligence
network of informants, i.e., stool pigeons, that 'surf the Internet.'
Gossip from one AFOSI 'Net stoolie uncovered that Datastream Cowboy was from
Britain. The anonymous source said he had e-mail correspondence with Datastream
Cowboy in which the hacker said he was a 16-year old living in
England who enjoyed penetrating ".MIL" systems. Datastream Cowboy also
apparently ran a bulletin board system and gave the telephone number to the
AFOSI source.

The Air Force team contacted New Scotland Yard and the British law
enforcement agency identified the residence, the home of Richard
Pryce, which corresponded to Datastream Cowboy's system phone number.
English authorities began observing Pryce's phone calls and noticed
he was making fraudulent use of British Telecom.  In addition,
whenever intrusions at the Air Force network in Rome occurred, Pryce's
number was seen to be making illegal calls out of Britain.

Pryce travelled everywhere on the Internet, going through South America,
multiple countries in Europe and Mexico, occasionally entering the Rome
network.  From Air Force computers, he would enter systems at Jet
Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, and the Goddard Space
Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland. Since Pryce was capturing the logins
and passwords of the Air Force networks in Rome, he was then able to
get into the home systems of Rome network users, defense contractors
like Lockheed.

By mid-April of 1994 the Air Force was monitoring other systems being
used by the British hackers. On the 14th of the month, Kuji logged on
to the Goddard Space Center from a system in Latvia and copied data
from it to the Baltic country.  According to Gelber's report, the
AFOSI investigators assumed the worst, that it was a sign that someone
in an eastern European country was making a grab for sensitive
information.  They broke the connection but not before Kuji had
copied files off the Goddard system.  As it turned out, the Latvian
computer was just another system the British hackers were using as
a stepping stone; Pryce had also used it to cover his tracks when
penetrating networks at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, via
an intermediate system in Seattle, cyberspace.com.

The next day, Kuji was again observed trying to probe various
systems at NATO in Brussels and The Hague as well as Wright-Patterson.
On the 19th, Pryce successfully returned to NATO systems in The
Hague through Mindvox.  The point Gelber and Christy seem to be trying
to make is that Kuji, a 21-year old, was coaching Pryce during some
of his attacks on various systems.

By this point, New Scotland Yard had a search warrant for Pryce
with the plan being to swoop down on him the next time he accessed
the Air Force network in Rome.

In April, Pryce penetrated a system on the Korean peninsula and copied
material off a facility called the Korean Atomic Research Institute
to an Air Force computer in Rome. At the time, the investigators had
no idea whether the system was in North or South Korea.  The impression
created is one of hysteria and confusion at Rome. There was fear that the
system, if in North Korea, would trigger an international incident, with
the hack interpreted as an "aggressive act of war." The system turned
out to be in South Korea.

During the Korean break-in, New Scotland Yard could have intervened and
arrested Pryce.  However, for unknown reasons, the agency did not.  Those
with good memories may recall mainstream news reports concerning Pryce's
hack, which was cast as an entry into sensitive North Korean networks.

It's worth noting that while the story was portrayed as the work of
an anonymous hacker, both the U.S. government and New Scotland Yard knew
who the perpetrator was.  Further, according to Gelber's report English
authorities already had a search warrant for Pryce's house.

Finally, on May 12 British authorities pounced.  Pryce was arrested
and his residence searched.  He crumbled, according to the Times of
London, and began to cry.  Gelber and Christy write that Pryce promptly
admitted to the Air Force break-ins as well as others.  Pryce
confessed he had copied a large program that used artificial intelligence
to construct theoretical Air Orders of Battle from an Air Force computer
to Mindvox and left it there because of its great size, 3-4 megabytes.
Pryce paid for his Internet service with a fraudulent credit card number.
At the time, the investigators were unable to find out the name and
whereabouts of Kuji. A lead to an Australian underground bulletin board
system failed to pan out.

On June 23 of this year, Reuters reported that Kuji -- 21-year-old Mathew
Bevan -- a computer technician, had been arrested and charged in
connection with the 1994 Air Force break-ins in Rome.

Rocker Tom Petty sang that even the losers get lucky some time.  He
wasn't thinking of British computer hackers but no better words could be
used to describe the two Englishmen and a two year old chain of events that
led to fame as international computer terrorists in front of Congress
at the beginning of the summer of 1996.

Lacking much evidence for the case of conspiratorial computer-waged
campaigns of terror and chaos against the U.S., the makers of Congressional
reports resorted to telling the same story over and over, three
times in the space of the hearings on the subject. One envisions U.S.
Congressmen too stupid or apathetic to complain, "Hey, didn't we get that
yesterday, and the day before?" Pryce and Bevan appeared in "Security in
Cyberspace" and twice in Government Accounting Office reports AIMD-96-84
and T-AIMD96-92. Jim Christy, the co-author of "Security in Cyberspace"
and the Air Force Office of Special Investigations' source for the Pryce
case supplied the same tale for Jack Brock, author of the GAO reports.
Brock writes, ". . . Air Force officials told us that at least one of
the hackers may have been working for a foreign country interested in
obtaining military research data or areas in which the Air Force was
conducting advanced research."  It was, apparently, more wishful
thinking.


Notes:

1. The Federation of American Scientists has made available on its
Web site electronic copies of all the reports mentioned previously.
The URL is http://www.fas.org/ .

The FAS Web site also features an easy to use search engine which can
be used to pull up the Congressional testimony on hackers and
network intrusion.  These example key words are effective: "Jim
Christy," "Datastream Cowboy".


LIQUOR IN THE FRONT, POKER IN THE REAR OF THE FLYING SAUCER, II:
CRYPT NEWSLETTER'S JOHN ALEXANDER WATCH CONTINUES



"The truth is out there.  Trust no one."

                      --- currently popular Friday evening
                      bromides taken from US primetime TV


Crypt Newsletter's John Alexander watch continues in this issue
with a surprising appearance in a new book entitled "Tomorrow's
War" (Harcourt, Brace) by British reporter David Shukman.

Faithful readers know Alexander as a former Los Alamos National Lab's
non-lethal weapons guru with completely freaked out beliefs in
the paranormal, most recently profiled in Alexander Cockburn's
"Washington  Babylon." In the latter book, Alexander is said to be
convinced aliens are fooling with our women.

Alexander's name crops up infrequently in news articles on super
weapons of fabulous nature:  glue guns presumably similar to the
one used by the Marvel Comics villain Paste-Pot Pete in the
mid-Seventies, sonic mortars designed to induce loss of bowel
control and emesis, microwave brain melters.

One of his most famous quotes, from a 1980 paper in Military
Review dealt with telekinesis as a tool of war: "There is
sufficient concern about psychic intrusion to cause work to
begin on countermeasures such as bioenergy detectors . . . The
information presented here will be considered by some to be
ridiculous since it does not conform to their view of reality,
but some people still believe the world is flat."

In "Tomorrow's War," reporter Shukman spends a chapter concentrating
on the mostly invisible means of non-lethal war.  As part of his
research, he requested an interview with Alexander.  A Los Alamos
National Lab public relations hack balefully warns Shukman not to
bait Alexander with questions about actual weapons systems or the
guru of non-lethality will shut up like a clam.  During the interview,
Shukman is taken by how Alexander's eyes seem to bug out of his
head when he is speaking about death and US policy on non-lethal
weapons. In the book, Shukman claims Alexander says that killing the
citizenry of an enemy nation tends to alienate those we wish
to conquer because death, and here is the best part, is usually
seen as an irreversible condition.  Hence the need for non-lethal
weapons.

Although Alexander no longer appears to enjoy a position at Los
Alamos as a policy maker, Shukman's book was completed in 1994 before
the guru of non-lethality ended his association with the national
lab.

Also appearing in the book are science-fiction authors Janet and
Chris Morris.  Also deeply interested in non-lethal weaponry, they
tend to appear in articles and books that cite Alexander, too.
The Morrises are said to have traveled to Russia around 1991
and observed a secret brainwashing device manufactured by
Soviet Cold War science.  Although Shukman writes that it looked
legitimate, a careful reading by Crypt Newsletter left the
conclusion that it did not work at all.

In "Tomorrow's War," Shukman relates how in 1993, he reported a
lengthy piece for the BBC focusing on John Alexander, Janet Morris
and their interest in the development of non-lethal weaponry for
the US military. He adds Janet Morris used the BBC video segment to
peddle influence and curry interest in military and government circles.

Shukman also alleges the US military is poking around with the
development of, for want of a better name, a "fart bomb" that
emits a gas capable of stalling motor vehicles.  So named the "fart
bomb" because of its odor, Shukman writes he witnessed a test
in which personnel opened the hood of a running vehicle and sprayed
a compound into the air filter.  The vehicle then stalled.
This proves that "fart bombs" can be deployed an enemy nation
highways to halt traffic insists the scientist trying to develop
them.

Information warfare is also addressed.  Military hackers could
be employed to bring down the computer networks of enemy nations.
The chupacabras of cyberspace, "HERF" weapons that squirt
microwave radiation at computers thus fritzing circuitry and
shriveling data, are invoked. As a by-product, they can also be
turned on civilians. Command-activated computer viruses are being
developed to go on the offensive like obedient cyber-zombie warriors
in time of need.  No evidence of any of this is presented. It is said
to be purely the domain of the superscientists of the US military
industrial complex.

Alternatively, the aura of secrecy which surrounds reporting on
the topic could be seen as a mechanism designed to protect various
arms of the US military involved in researching it from a public
horsewhipping if the news became known to sufficiently large
numbers of common sense Americans.


More Alexander: A splendid sci-fi character
===========================================

Crypt Newsletter reader Cory Tucker alertly intercepted our John
Alexander watch alert on the Usenet and supplemented the news
stream this issue with an extract from the electronic magazine,
Mindnet Journal.

In a June 1996 article from the magazine, reporter Armen Victorian
quotes Alexander in a 1990 paper presented to the "Forum for
Military Applications of Directed Energy (F-MADE)" at Kirtland
Air Force Base in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

The quote is reproduced:

"I submit that we will have to abandon the border-based concept
of 'Fortress America' and recognise that our national interests
may be endangered from within."

This is connected with some standard Alexander pronouncements on
the establishment of new values of conflict and the coercion
of enemies by means of the usual canisters of non-lethal
phlogiston.

One can subscribe to the Mindnet Journal thusly,

Send message: [subscribe mindnet] to: <Majordomo@c2.org>.

However, one of the most damning articles on Alexander was one
entitled "The Soft Kill Fallacy" that appeared in a 1994 edition
of The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. Written by Secrecy & Government
Bulletin editor Steven Aftergood, it reported puckishly, "John Alexander
is by all accounts a resourceful and imaginative individual. He would
make a splendid character in a science fiction novel. But he probably
shouldn't be spending taxpayer money without adult supervision."

But according to Aftergood, Alexander is now a private citizen
and no longer associated with Los Alamos, voiding the issue.
In a recent telephone interview Aftergood reflected that although he
hoped it was not the case it was quite likely that controversy arising
from the 1994 TBATS news piece had resulted in Alexander . . . moving
on from the national weapons lab.  Pesky questions arising from a
history laced with talk about mind control, talking to dolphins and
diving for the lost continent of Atlantis are too be avoided in
weapons lab employment.

More recently, Alexander appeared in the March 1996 issue of National
Defense, a military industry business and technology journal published
in Arlington, Virginia.  In "Non-lethal weapons demand expands as
missions change," Alexander reveals very little but admits that
there are "severe limitations" on the capabilities of current systems.
Some of these are the "sticky foams"  developed by Sandia National
Laboratory and "deployable nets" made for Advanced Research Projects
Agency by a company called Foster-Miller. ". . . there is very limited
confidence the weapons will do the job required," Alexander writes.

Alexander, seemingly glum over the future of non-lethal weaponry,
now invokes information warfare as a necessary part of the action.
It is, he says, "an independent but complimentary form" of
non-lethal conflict. No specifics are given. Since it is completely
unnecessary to have any idea what "information warfare" is within
the context of the bureaucratized, institutionalized readership at
which his article is aimed, it is enough that the magical buzzterm be
presented.



A search for brainwashing devices
=================================

Wherever one finds evidence of the John Alexander legend, Janet Morris
the grand dame of non-lethal weapons is always close by.

For instance, also panned from the World Wide Web, this description of
Janet Morris jumped out of a June 1993 issue of the British magazine,
Lobster:

"Janet Morris . . . is best known as a science fiction writer but has
been a member of the New York Academy of Sciences since 1980 . . ."

Crypt Newsletter readers should note anyone, even you, can be a member
of the New York Academy of Sciences as long as you subscribe to the
organization's publishing organ, The Sciences.

Lobster continues, "She worked on a research project investigating
the effects of mind on probability in computer systems . . . In a
recent telephone conversation with [the reporter], Janet Morris confirmed
John Alexander's involvement in mind control and psychotronic projects
in the Los Alamos National Laboratories. Alexander and his team have
recently been working with Dr. 'Igor Smirnov', a psychologist from the
Moscow Institute of Psychocorrelations. They were invited to the U.S.
after Janet Morris' visit to Russia in 1991. There she was shown the
technique which was pioneered by the Russian Department of
Psycho-Correction at Moscow Medical Academy. The Russians
employ a technique to electronically analyse the human mind in order to
influence it. They input subliminal command messages, using key words
transmitted in 'white noise' or music. Using an infrasound very low
frequency-type transmission, the acoustic psycho-correction message is
transmitted via bone conduction . . . "

In essence, this is a description of the same brainwashing device
cited in "Tomorrow's War" by reporter Shukman. Incidentally, Crypt
Newsletter also found this excerpt in a larger article attributed to
Nexus, an Australian New Age magazine (see below).

Lobster, in more information culled from the World Wide Web, is an
unusual political journal from Britain.  Founded in 1983 by Stephen
Dorril and Robin Ramsay, it covers spying and secrecy issues
in Britain and the U.S.


Janet Morris: Environmentally friendly information warfare
==========================================================

In a 1995 paper published by the US Air Force, Janet Morris and colleagues
signal they, like John Alexander, have hitched their dray to information
warfare as well as non-lethality.  "Antilethal" weaponry is also added
to the stew.

In an article entitled "Weapons of Mass Protection: Nonlethality,
Information Warfare, and Airpower in the age of Chaos" for an
edition of AirPower Journal, Janet and Chris Morris insist
conventional air power -- the dropping of iron bombs on the
unpopular -- is no longer the correct tool for suppressing the future
equivalents of "Serbian warplanes pounding Bosnian religious sites or
a resurgence of Saddam Hussein's Iraqi adventurism, Somalian warlords
firing on United Nations peacekeepers, or Rwandan refugees streaming
across uncontrollable borders . . ."

Instead, a cocktail of non-lethal and antilethal weapons plus
information warfare is the answer, "delivering results that are life
conserving, environmentally friendly, and fiscally responsible."

Unfortunately, very little of the paper is actually devoted to
explaining precisely what constitutes information warfare and
"antilethal" weaponry.  Instead, the authors concentrate on educating
the reader about the evolution of warmaking theory from Sun Tzu to
Machiavelli to Karl von Clausewitz with a little philosophy from
John Locke thrown in on the side. The only missing element is
citation of the Schlieffen plan but this is more than made up for
by the proclamation that it is now "the age of chaos" and
pungent usage of the terms "paradigm" and "international rule of
law."

Since it is "the age of chaos," the current time of combat must
be reclassified as "The Era of Wars of Divestiture." A war of
divestiture, write the Morrises, is a war in which we, along with
the military of the United States, "divest" the enemy of his ability
to wage war and mess up the international rule of law.  In wars
of this nature, the US military then protects the "innocents" and
preserves "the environment from destruction . . ." caused by enemies
who start wars that blow up the countryside and people.

To do this, the threshold of war must be lowered so that non-lethal
and "antilethal" weapons, as well as information war, can be unleashed
on the enemy before the environment is despoiled.

"But what is non-lethality?" you ask.  The Morrises have it covered.
"Nonlethality categorizes nonlethal weapons as . . . nonlethal and
antilethal."  Clear?

Anyway, the non-lethal technologies are ones the Crypt Newsletter
reader has heard much of already.

They are "acoustic," "high-power microwave" (the HERF gun); "non-nuclear
electromagnetic pulse" (HERF gun again); "obscurants" (smoke shells);
"glues and slicks";  "supercaustics" (new word for acids and bases);
"magnetohydrodynamics" (Crypt has no idea but neither does anyone else,
really); "information warfare" (more HERF guns, computer viruses,
hackers); and "soldier protection" (bullet proof armor and helmets)."

Antilethal technologies are slightly different.  These include any
weapon that can kill the enemy but are mostly meant only to destroy
equipment or kill smaller numbers of civilians than usual.
That's right! It's another name for a "smart bomb."

The Morrises warn that it is time to act now on information
warfare because "rogue states" and "subnational and pannational
groups of religious fundamentalists" will not be deterred from using
its tactics against us.  It is the property of computer hackers"
and, "Its weapons are available worldwide."

"Its  systems can be cobbled together from electronics stores on the
streets of any city in the world or can be ordered by mail."

Par for articles of this nature: Zero examples are given,
no references on the matter cited.  Crypt Newsletter will fill in
the blanks for the reader and assume the Morrises are somewhat familiar
with things like the Virus Creation Laboratory toolkit or CD-ROMs of
computer viruses and hacker software and that this is what they're
aiming at when they mention the easy availability of information warfare
technology.  Crypt will add they _probably_ mean the kinds of hackers
like Datastream Cowboy who broke into the Air Force Material Command
in Rome, NY, but was arrested anyway and curled up in a ball and cried
when New Scotland Yard came to take him away.

Attached to the end of the article is a disclaimer:

"The conclusions and opinions expressed in this document
are those of the author cultivated in the freedom of expression,
academic environment of Air University. They do not reflect the
official position of the US Government, Department of Defense, the
United States Air Force or the Air University."

Therefore, one assumes the article could mean something if the
President or a general thinks it is cool, or nothing at all if
it ever proves to be a source of embarrassment.


Still more UFOs, brainwashing by microwave and Alexander the PENGUIN
====================================================================

Whenever bumping into the reputations of John Alexander and the weirdo
aspects of "non-lethal" weapons, one must also be aware of their proximity
to the gray area of the paranormal.

For example, from the Australian magazine, Nexus, attributed to Armen
Victorian, apparently the same reporter from the Mindnet Journal,
retrieved from the Web and Usenet:

"[Alexander is] on the board of a 'remote viewing' company called
PSI-TECH . . .

"PSI-TECH has received several government contracts. For example,
during the Gulf War crisis the Department of Defense asked it to use
remote viewing to locate Saddam's Scud missiles sites."

[For those unfamiliar with the term "remote viewing," Crypt Newsletter
supplies a glossary definition, below].

The article goes on to confusingly link Alexander to a "UFO working
group" in the Defense Intelligence Agency and a very perplexing plot
to disseminate disinformation about UFO's.  In this plot Alexander
has a secret codename: PENGUIN.

The Federation of American Scientists' Steven Aftergood added his
last sighting of Alexander came from a UFO magazine that spotted
the guru of non-lethality near Las Vegas making preparations for
the inevitable and final arrival of aliens from outer space.

So much of this flyblown information is in circulation that a paranoid
might think it part of a black project cover operation designed to
deliberately spread confusion and ludicrous hearsay on the subject.

Indeed, a quick survey of Usenet messages show literally more than a
hundred recent posts devoted to John Alexander: Alexander
and psycho-electronic mind bending; Alexander and acoustic bullets;
Alexander as part of a cabal of spies; Alexander and machines
which are said to cause loss of friction in the bowels; Alexander and
top secret projects operating out of the apparently
real Beverly Hills company, Psi-Tech, using psychic power to
procure intelligence data by acts of high-tech conjuring. Some consist
of fragments of news stories; some are complete magazine reprints and
extracts. Many are iterations which seem to have been spawned from
older stories resulting in a conflation greater than the sum of
its parts.

If the HERF gun is the chupacabra of cyberspace, the  legend of John
Alexander is its equivalent of H. P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu
Mythos. The cynic cannot help but notice it would seem quite impossible
to write anything on the subject without inadvertently adding to the
endless cyberspatial sucking black hole of John Alexander lore.



A glossary of terms
===================

antilethal: n. Opposite the spirit of maximum lethality but still
deadly.

Usage: The _antilethal_ precision munition had incinerated only two
hundred civilians when it landed on a bunker in downtown Baghdad so
the generals could not understand why the international newsmedia
became so irritated.


hacker: n.  In this context, a young man very adept with computers
and networks, possibly a pawn of Libya or North Korea.

Usage: Indeed it was good the _hacker_ had been apprehended in his
single apartment in Raleigh because the government feared he was
only a step away from bringing down the entire system of international
banking.


HERF weapon: n. Always suspected but never seen, the HERF - or
High Energy Radio Frequency - gun is responsible for much
nettlesome corporate computer failure nationwide, according to
information warriors.

Usage: Dodson was relieved the computer security guru had been able
to convince management that the corrupted data on the network was the
work of an _HERF weapon_ attack on the corporation, not the boobytrapped
pornographic bit of software he had obtained from alt.sex.watersports.


information warfare: n. In this context, everything and nothing.
What hackers, Libyan agents, rogue nation-states, international
criminals, and pannational groups of religious fundamentalists
will conduct against America in the near future.

Usage:  America On-Line was besieged by a series of vexing and
seemingly pointless information warfare attacks conducted by
teenage hackers armed with AOL Hell, a program that automated the
sending of scrofulous electronic messages to other customers.


international rule of law: that which is invoked when another
country not in the West defies the military, political or business
interests of the United States.

Usage:  The Washington Post quoted sources at the Government Accounting
Office who maintained that pariah states in the Third World, their
exact identities classified, had broken the _international rule of law_
by enlisting hackers to attack U.S. networks through the Internet.


paradigm: n. pattern, an example, a model.

Usage: The pronouncements of John Alexander and Janet Morris were
the paradigm for the phlogiston of non-lethal orthodoxy.


remote viewing: use of psychic means to conjure up an accurate image
of something not physically observable by the "remote viewer."

Usage: The generals of U.S. Army intelligence were very impressed
when the non-lethal weapons guru described Muammar Ghaddafi sitting
in a dwelling somewhere near a sandy desert, all through the science
of _remote viewing_.


superscientists: n. The engineers, technicians and researchers
who develop weapons for the US military under the cover of black
projects. In glossy mainstream magazines they appear always
omniscient and generally anonymously.

Usage: The non-lethal weapons guru at Sandia National Laboratory
provided sage guidance for a crack team of _superscientists_ engaged in
Project Tacit Laurel, an effort to build an ultra/infra-sonic cannon
capable of inducing ineradicable, debilitating flatus in crowds of
hostile foreigners and terrorists.



LUDWIG COMPUTER VIRUS BOOK TO RETAIL FOR $395.00

The newest book from Mark Ludwig's American Eagle Publications
will retail for the astonishing price of $395.00 cash money.  Entitled
"Computer Virus SuperTechnology 1996," the book focuses almost 
exclusively on writing computer viruses for the Win95 operating 
system.

Ludwig commented that since specialty publications like Virus Bulletin
cost a similar amount for a one year subscription, he was moved to
ask a commensurate amount for "Virus SuperTechnology."  Ludwig added
he had already received 160 advance orders for the book. Since the
book's production cost comes out to between one and two dollars
per copy, as an exercise it is left to the reader to perform the
arithmetic and calculate the net gain on an initial print run of five
hundred.

The unusual cost prices "Virus SuperTechnology" almost completely out
of reach of the archetype teen virus-writer but squarely in the domain
of corporate domestic and international computer security organizations,
software developers, the U.S. government, foreign powers, military
planners engaged in "information warfare" projects and the occasional
lunatic with a large amount of discretionary cash.

======================================================================
In more Ludwig news, anti-virus software author Fridrik Skulason
declared at the end of July he was "seriously considering suing Mark
Ludwig" in a post to the Usenet's alt.comp.virus newsgroup.

"It seems that his latest CD-ROM includes a copy of [my] F-PROT anti-virus
program, including the file that specifically states that distributing it
together with viruses is absolutely forbidden," Skulason wrote.  He added
he was interested in securing a lawyer willing to prosecute a case against
Ludwig based upon his complaint.

Asked for comment, Ludwig was indifferent, laughing a moment later.
"Let him sue," he said.  Ludwig indicated he felt any suit would
be meretricious.  "What could he do?  Take my computer? I doubt he
could even find my office."


THE KAISER OF MICROSOFT IS MOVED TO AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER AFTER
BOMB SCARE


"We will roast the Great Satan in his lair."

                  --Ayatollah Khomeini, on America around
                  the time of the hostage crisis


On the first day of August, the Los Angeles Times ran a small article
in the business section that mentioned Bill Gates had been forced
to move a conference to an aircraft carrier in Seattle harbor because
of a bomb scare.

The article focused on Microsoft's use of WindowsNT to stimulate
acquisition of Win95 by those in corporations who hadn't yet jumped
on the bandwagon. This was part of a larger plan to position the company
as a major provider of "content" for the Internet. [1]

In addition, Microsoft-NBC, a new 24-hour news channel is part of the
grand march. Even more "content" is to be furnished by a travel magazine
called . . . and this is the truth, Mungo Park.

The most interesting part of the news blip was the bomb scare.

"We are willing to take substantial risks" said Bill in interview from
the redoubt of the aircraft carrier Constellation, at anchor off Seattle.

Indeed.

Three hundred reporters and Bill were evacuated to the aircraft
carrier after a bomb scare at the Bell Harbor International Conference
Center, where the Kaiser was orchestrating his press conference.

It was said the Constellation was in town for "a fair over the weekend."
No truth to the rumors the Kaiser was inspecting it before purchase as
the foundation for MSNAF, the Microsoft Naval Air Force, or that he was
seen reading the old Strategic Air Command treatise, "Bombing as a Means
of Social Coercion." [2] However, it is true the Kaiser's new home resembles
a high-tech bunker and that he has been securing art and culture at a
frenetic pace: the electronic rights to the photos of Ansel Adams, the
images of the Barnes collection and one big-deal Washington propagandist,
Michael Kinsley.

Notes:

1. Crypt Newsletter advises readers "content" is the in vogue euphemism
for major bull in these categories: straight advertising; infotainment;
exhortations to buy software, hardware, advice, durable goods, airline
tickets or preferred stock; pictures of naked or semi-nude women; resume
and "career" services aimed at the emergent nation of American
gaberlunzies created by the same types of computers
that run the Web; hagiography of movie and rock stars; rampaging
hucksterism; and panegyrics devoted to the sovereigns of financial
swindle.

2. Some smart alecks have suggested Crypt Newsletter makes up book
titles like "Bombing as a Means of Social Coercion."  Well, yes
and no.  "Bombing as a Means of Social Coercion" was suggested by
the real book, "Bombing to Win" by Robert Drake.  Despite
a title superior to "Bombing as a Means of Social Coercion,"
"Bombing to Win" is actually an examination of the ineffectiveness
of strategic bombing as a tool for achieving absolute military,
political and social aims. Shhhh.  Don't tell the Kaiser.



SOME NOT SO OBVIOUS BUSINESS WITH DOS IN WIN95

by Stephen Poole

When Windows 95 was released to much hype last August, you could
read in any number of computer magazines that Windows 95 "no
longer needs DOS!"  Windows 95 was presented as a seamless,
integrated 32-bit operating system with all of the old traces of
klunky old real-mode DOS removed.

That was misleading nonsense.  While it's true that a
32-bit DOS system is used with Windows 95, that system is *only*
active while the Windows 95 environment is active, i.e.., while the
Explorer desktop is active.  At all other times, the system is in
a state that's quite similar to the older DOS 5-6.22 regime with
HIMEM and EMM386 handling upper memory.

This has obvious implications for system security, especially in
anti-virus work, so I wanted to take a closer look at it.  A few
simple tests will demonstrate the key points.

The first test is to start an MS-DOS prompt and run the command
"MEM /DEBUG | MORE" or a program such as QEMM's MANIFEST.  If
you've done this under DOS 5-6/Win 3.x, you may be startled at how
familiar the memory layout is.  Look closely, and you'll see the
FILES, HIMEM, and even our old friend WIN.COM, in memory.

The next test is better. But first, let me explain a few things.
As a programmer, I frequently want to exit Windows, make some changes,
and then restart Windows.  It's a real pain to have to reboot the
system each time.  Suspecting that there is a 16-bit DOS system
hiding somewhere "under" Windows 95, how can I get to it?  And
how can I prevent Win95 from hanging the system when "Shut Down"
is selected at the end of the session?

First, let's set things up so that we'll get a DOS prompt when we
start the computer.

(NOTE: The following isn't recommended for novice computer users.)

1.  Click the MS-DOS Prompt icon again.  When you get to the DOS
prompt, switch to the root bootable subdirectory -- this is "C:\" on
most systems.

2.  Enter the command "ATTRIB MSDOS.SYS -s -h -r" at the prompt to make
MSDOS.SYS visible to your editor.  Under Win95, MSDOS.SYS is actually
just a hidden ASCII text file containing some configuration info.

3.  Use your text editor to open MSDOS.SYS.  Under the [options]
section, you should see:

        BootGUI=1

Change this to:

        BootGUI=0

Be careful not to change anything else in the file.  Save the file,
exit the DOS box and shut Windows down. Now reboot the computer.
You should come back to a normal-looking DOS prompt.  At this point,
you could enter "win" at the prompt, just as you did under Win 3.1x.
Win95 would start.  But . . . when you Shut Down, the computer still
hangs, same as before.  (Try it.)

We're halfway there . . . how can we get *back* to that DOS prompt
when Windows 95 shuts down?

This is pretty simple.  All you have to do is put the "win"
invocation in a .BAT file, so that you're starting Windows 95
indirectly.  Create a little batch file named WINTEST.BAT containing
these lines:

        win
        mode co80

(You can use a number of different DOS commands after the "win". I
chose "mode co80" to clear the screen.  All we're really want to do
is tell the system that we have something else that needs to be done
when Windows shuts down.  Otherwise, Windows will still hang the
computer.)

If you then enter "wintest" at the DOS prompt, the batch file will
execute, and Windows 95 will start up.  But this time, when you shut
it down, you'll get the "wait" screen, followed by "it's now safe
to turn off" . . . followed by a DOS prompt!  How about that!

Finally, some people might argue that these tests aren't fair,
because we're forcing Windows 95 to load some DOS components.
Doesn't this mean that it might be "different", somehow, when
operating under these conditions? To settle that question, here's
one more test:

Go back to your MSDOS.SYS file and restore it to its original
state (change "BootGUI=0" back to "BootGUI=1").  Then insert the
line "Logo=0" under the [options].  All this does is turn off
the pretty startup screen, so that you can see what's happening
during the boot.

To eliminate any possibility that extraneous DOS software is
being loaded, temporarily rename your CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT
files to CONFIG.BAK and AUTOEXEC.BAK.  Shut down Windows and
reboot the computer.

This time, you'll get a DOS-style startup screen.  Watch closely,
and you'll see HIMEM and EMM386 load anyway, even though there's
no CONFIG.SYS file to tell DOS to load them!  (Hmmm . . . why would
a 32-bit operating system be loading some old DOS-style memory
management stuff?)

If you try this, don't get nervous when the screen goes dark, and
stays dark for some time before you see the Explorer desktop.
Since you told Windows not to display the "logo," you get a blank
screen.)

To restore the default behavior, delete the "Logo=0" line, use
ATTRIB -s -h -r to change MSDOS.SYS back to a hidden file, rename
your CONFIG.BAK and AUTOEXEC.BAK files to the original file names and
reboot the computer.

It seems like DOS hasn't really gone away after all. And this
means that even a pre-configured Win95 system straight out of the
box IS vulnerable to at least some older DOS viruses.

TECHNICAL DETAILS FOR THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED:
===============================================

Windows 95 is basically a souped-up Win 3.1 (let's call it Win 4.0)
running atop a souped-up DOS 6.22 (we'll call it DOS 7.0).  While
there are some nice enhancements (such as long file names and
32-bit DOS, at least while the Windows 95 environment is active),
the apparent "seamless integration" itself is primarily smoke and
mirrors.  By displaying a graphics logo during the bootup, for
example, Win95 can hide the fact that it's actually loading
HIMEM.SYS and EMM386.EXE -- just as it did under old DOS.

The system's startup code, the code loaded from the system area of
the machine on start, automatically loads HIMEM.SYS and
EMM386.EXE even if you have no CONFIG.SYS file or have left those
lines out of it.  It then executes your AUTOEXEC.BAT file, assuming
that you have one, and finishes by executing the equivalent of a "win"
command entered at the DOS prompt -- just as if "win" were the last
command in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file.

At that point, you're still under a fairly normal DOS regime with
upper memory support.  Only after WIN.COM starts VMM32.VXD, which
sets up the VxDs, are you actually running under a 32-bit
protected-mode system.

Here's another important point.  When you start a DOS program or
an MS-DOS Prompt in Windows 95, the system will create a special
"DOS box" just for the program (also called a "virtual 8086 machine",
or "V86 box"). The system will essentially create a copy of
_whatever_was_in_memory_ at the moment that WIN.COM was started
for this purpose. And if a virus was in memory just before
WIN.COM started, you'll have a copy of that virus in each DOS box!

When you select "Shut Down" from the Start Menu, WIN.COM regains
control and displays the message, "it's now safe to shut down",
followed by a system hang.  The pertinent machine instructions
in WIN.COM look something like this ...

            cli         ;Disable interrupts
            .
            .           ;(Do some other stuff here)
            .
        lockup:
            hlt         ;Halt instruction
            jmp lockup  ;Loop forever, producing a hang

To summarize, the complete sequence, from bootup to shutdown, looks
something like this:

INITIAL BOOTUP: BIOS is in control, regardless of operating system
SYSTEM BOOTUP:  IO.SYS takes control, sets up 16-bit DOS/HIMEM/EMM386
WIN95 STARTUP:  WIN.COM starts VMM32.VXD, sets up the 32-bit system
WIN95 IN OPERATION: 32-bit protected mode system, DOS in 32-bit VxDs
WIN95 SHUTDOWN: Back to the equivalent of 16-bit DOS/HIMEM/EMM386 *

(* this last one isn't strictly accurate in all cases, but it'll
work for our purposes.)

Simply put, the only time that you're not under a 16-bit or
DOS/HIMEM regime is when Win95 is in actual control of the PC
-- when you've got the Explorer Desktop.

It's possible, of course, that some unusual configurations of
Windows 95 won't exhibit the precise behavior described above.  But
in my tests, the basic sequence outlined above holds true for every
configuration that I've tried.

Finally, Microsoft does keep track of what people are saying about
Windows95 and has recently begun adding features to make it more
difficult for programmers to use "undocumented functions" that exist in
Windows.

Most programmers have to resort to these types of "undocumented functions"
to do the really cool stuff.  Under Windows, you can call a system
function either by name or by "ordinal." Without getting needlessly
technical, you can consider this a function "number."  Most of the really
juicy undocumented functions must be called by this "number" method.
You can't get at them any other way.

Windows has a (documented) way to get the number for a function that you
want to use.  It has worked fine in the past but recent releases of
Windows 95 now return a garbage value if you try to get certain system
function numbers.

Matt Pietrik investigated and discovered that Microsoft has added a
little XOR encryption, a garbling value called the "obsfucator" (sic).
Seriously, that's the name of it!   Anytime someone asks for the number of
an undocumented system function, the system will garble the true number
with this "obsfucator" value!

(Those interested in more should see "Windows 95 Programming Secrets" by
Matt Pietrik.)

[Stephen Poole is one of the authors of the ARF Anti-virus.]


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: LUDWIG'S $395.00 BOOK NOT AN OBSTACLE
============================================================

Crypt:

OK. [Ludwig's virus book] is cheap compared to my own computer
that I bought with cash as a teenager for a full 3800 Australia dollars.

So I would not say that teen virus-writers will not buy it.

Hell, a few teen virus-writers buy the book together and one has a scanner
to make a mass copy on the Net.  Hello, every teen virus-writer on
the Internet has it. Hacker point of view: Harder it is to do, the more
fun to complete. Just another target.

pcdolding, CRYLUX, Australia

[Let's see if I have this straight.  You're writing that you paid almost
$4000 for a computer but you nevertheless advocate use of a team to
steal a book of computer viruses that only costs a tenth of that, all
for the community of virus-writers on the 'Net. And who says "hackers"
don't know how to deal with the media!?! --Crypt]


CRYPT WEBSITE DEEMED GOOD
=========================

Crypt:

Well, basically I'm new to the computer and the world of the Internet.
I've been moving around a lot overseas so I never had a chance to own or
use a computer for very long. I'm very interested though, now that I've
tried it. It's fascinating, all of these networks and highways [and]
how they're connected. I've read your newsletters and I find them very
interesting . . . I've always been interested in hackers and would like
to acquire the knowledge to do so myself. If you could give me any
information that would help me understand these things it would be great.
Thanks for your help. Your web page is awesome.

-Jess



Crypt:

Thank you for the information given. Sometime, somewhere, someone
will put it all to good use, maybe even me.

Matthew Graves



-=The Crypt Newsletter welcomes thoughtful mail from readers at
crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu. Published letters may be edited for length
and clarity or anonymized to protect the naive from themselves.=-



REACHING CRYPT NEWSLETTER


Send software, books, subscription orders ($10.00/year) to:

                George Smith
                Crypt Newsletter
                1635 Wagner St.
                Pasadena, CA 91106

E-mail: crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu or 70743.1711@compuserve.com


CRYPT NEWSLETTER HYPERTEXT

If you're reading this, you don't have it.

 Crypt Hypertext can be registered through Compuserve's
 on-line SWREG service.

 To purchase a copy of Crypt Hypertext through your CompuServe account
 simply use the GO menu and enter the keyword: SWREG. You will
 be presented with a menu to identify your geographic location.
 When prompted to search the software database enter the number:
 # 9228 or the name CRYPT NEWSLETTER HYPERTEXT V. 1.0 and provide
 the requested information.

 You will receive a copy of Crypt Hypertext through US Mail.

 Operating Systems - DOS, WINDOWS

 Cost: $30.00 + $4.00 shipping and handling in US, Canada and Mexico.
              + $8.00 shipping and handling worldwide.

 The database contains not only Crypt Newsletter 1992 - 95
 but also a great deal of additional material and unpublished notes.
 Where appropriate, additions have also been made to old
 issues and articles to provide current perspective and background.

 The database also contains a keyworded glossary and extensive
 subject index spanning the length and breadth of the newsletter.
 Cut and paste any information to your customized specification.

 In the database you'll find comprehensive stories, tutorials
 and news on:

 --the computer virus underground and virus-writers

 --the anti-virus industry

 --on-line culture and sociology

 --book reviews of current titles in security

 --annals of computer crime & computer virus spread

 --virus descriptions and history

 --walkthrough simulations, imagery and displays - aural and visual -
   from computer viruses and controversial virus-making software
   toolkits

 --discussion of legal issues with regard to computer viruses and
   related computer crime

 --extensive companion material for the author's book, "The Virus
   Creation Labs"

 --review of the mainstream media: the shams and scams reported as
   real news. Take a skeptic's look at the information highway!

   The Crypt Newsletter database is also extensible.  Future
   hypertext issues, distributed through CIS forums, can easily be
   copied to the database's directory on your home computer and
   seamlessly integrated into the collection.


   The complete index of topics 1992 - 96 is on the Crypt News
   Web page:

                 http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt



                CRYPT HYPERTEXT ORDER FORM
---------------------------------------------------------
By Mail:

Return this form along with your remittance to:

COMSEC Ltd.
1545 Waukegan Road Suite 2
Glenview, Illinois 60025-2143

Orders:  800-754-8214
Support: 847-729-3565
Fax:     847-729-3575

Questions To: crypt@sun.soci.niu.edu
              70743.1711@compuserve.com

ORDER:

[ ]  ____    Crypt Hypertext(s) @ $30.00 each.

[ ] Regular mail shipping, please add $4.00.

[ ] US Priority Mail, please add $6.00.


Checks and money orders must be in U.S. dollars drawn on a U.S. bank.
Do Not Enclose Cash.

Total enclosed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $______________

Payment by:  [] Check  [] Money Order

SHIP TO:

Name _____________________________________________________

Address 1 ________________________________________________

Address 2 ________________________________________________

City __________________________ State/Province ___________

Zip/Postal Code ________________ Country _________________

Telephone (______)________________________________________




CRYPT ON COMPUSERVE

Crypt Newsletter is now concentrated in two places on Compuserve.
GO CRYPTNEWS brings the user to dedicated Crypt Newsletter message
and file bases!  For example, in addition to the usual issues Crypt
maintains copies of electronic documents like the Federation of
American Scientists' Secrecy & Government Bulletin and the recent GAO
report on hacking incidents at Department of Defense.

GO NCSAFORUM will bring users into the National Computer Security
Association Infosec forum.  This forum features a great deal of specific
and general information on computer security as well as Crypt Newsletter
in its attached file libraries and message bases.


CRYPT NEWSLETTER WORLD WIDE WEB HOME PAGE

You can visit Crypt & The Virus Creation Labs on the
World Wide Web, download back issues and sample a chapter
from VCL!

Set your browser to:

URL: http://www.soci.niu.edu/~crypt


----------------------------------------------------------------
If you quite enjoy the Crypt Newsletter, editor George Smith's book,
The Virus Creation Labs: A Journey Into the Underground,"  will
really flip your wig. In it Smith unravels the intrigue behind
virus writers and their scourges, the anti-virus software
developers and security consultants on the information highway.

What people are saying about THE VIRUS CREATION LABS:

     "I couldn't stop reading it . . . As hype continues to
     build about security on the Internet and movies like
     _Hackers_ ooze the real hackers into the mainstream arena,
     this book is definite apropos material for the time.
     Read it! A+"
                      ---The Net magazine, February 1996


     "[VIRUS CREATION LABS] is informative and stunningly
     incisive . . . "
                      ---Secure Computing, October 1995

     "George Smith . . . takes a look at the world of virus writers
     and anti-virus software vendors in a style similar to that
     of 'Cyberpunks' -- anecdotal, humorous and revealing . . . a
     lucid and entertaining read."

                      ---Computer Security Journal


     "There are relatively few books on the 'computer underground' that
     provide richly descriptive commentary and analysis of personalities
     and culture that simultaneously grab the reader with entertaining
     prose. Among the classics are Cliff Stoll's 'The Cuckoo's Egg,'
     Katie Hafner and John Markoff's 'Cyberpunk,' and Bruce
     Sterling's 'The Hacker Crackdown.'  Add George Smith's
     'The Virus Creation Labs' to the list . . . 'Virus Creation
     Labs' is about viruses as M*A*S*H is about war!"

                       ---Jim Thomas, Computer underground
                       Digest 7.18, March 5, 1995

     "THE VIRUS CREATION LABS dives into the hoopla of the Michelangelo
     media blitz and moves on to become an engaging, articulate,
     wildly angry diatribe on the world of computer virus writers . . .
     Expert reporting."
                      ----McClatchy NewsWire


-------------------------order form-------------------------

Yes, I want my wig flipped and wish to receive a copy of George
Smith's "The Virus Creation Labs: A Journey Into the Underground"
(American Eagle, ISBN 0-929408-09-8).

   Price: $12.95/copy plus $2.50 shipping per book (add $7.50 overseas)

   NAME: _____________________________________________

   ADDRESS: __________________________________________

   CITY/STATE/ZIP: __________________________________

   Payment method:

   ___ Master Charge

   ___ Money Order

   ___ Check

   ___ Visa

   Credit Card # ___________________________________________

   Expiration date _________________________________________

   Name: ____________________________

   Orders can be taken by voice or fax through regular phone
   number and/or 1-800 number in USA.  COD welcome.

   American Eagle: 1-800-719-4957
                   1-520-367-1621
                   POB 1507
                   Show Low, AZ 85901


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
===============
This issue's software comment provided by the inimitable Stephen Poole.


-------------------------------------------------------------
George Smith, Ph.D., edits the Crypt Newsletter from Pasadena,
CA.

copyright 1996 Crypt Newsletter. All rights reserved.
