                            Advice for the Newbie
                                     By
                                    Duke




Aren't you tired of being called a lamer and being flamed because you're just a newbie?  
This could help you earn the respect you need.  First find a few people that you know who 
you think could help you get started.  Ask simple questions at first.  Don't bomb them 
with a million questions, this makes them get them annoyed.  Pick something you want to 
learn.(Hacking, Virii, Cracking, Phreaking etc.)  Ask them to give you some good URLs.  
Then READ READ READ.  You will be a newbie forever if you don't read.  When you 
get stumped on something ask your friend for some help.  Ask for examples so you will 
have a better understanding.  Don't be afraid to ask questions.  If they call you "friend",  
you shouldn't have to worry.  Don't worry if someone calls you a lamer or flames you.  
Those are the people who need to remember that they were newbies at one point also.  The 
people who work together and learn from each other are going to be the ones that become 
Super-Elite-Hackers. But when you have a question don't just go somewhere and ask it.  
Research.  Go to a search engine and look for as much info as possible before you ask.  I 
don't suggest going to Mirc for answers.  The people there are rarely ever a help.  And in 
my opinion mostly every so-called hacker there is a big fucking lamer.  Always try to keep 
contact with your friends.  This brings you closer together and they will trust you more.  
And don't go using a new trick you learned on someone just because he called you a bitch 
in a chatroom.  For one, he could be an advanced hacker and destroy your computer.  
Using tools like WinNuke and other programs along that line are lamer tools.  Don't be 
afraid to try things.  Just be sure you know what you're doing!  I know a guy who thought 
it was funny to keep nuking some guy.  Well that guy was a cop.  He no longer has an ISP.  
Try to get involved with a group.  Ask group leaders what you can do for them. A group is 
a great place to learn more.  Try to get everyone's email or ICQ number.(You can find 
ICQ at www.mirabilis.com It's a great communication tool!)  Talk with as many people as 
possible.  Find out what projects your group has running.  Join them if you think you 
could help out. Try to do has as many of these things as possible and you will get 
somewhere.  Never give up and keep learning!
