::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Feb/99
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 2 - File 6 :::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Interview with Digital Avatar:

 Shortly after we first DoJ was released we already decided that
we need Staff. Digital Avatar was the first. He quickly became
the Assistant Editor. Helping with promotion, editing and also
submissions.

DoJ: How long have you been in the h/p scene ?
DA: Since about 1992. I was 13 then and I was just playing around,
but it helped...

DoJ: What drew you in ?
DA: I had watched some movies here and there and had seen some 
things on the news. So I decided to just check a few things out. 
My very first impression of the scene occured when I typed 
"Hacking" into Yahoo. It really is that easy.

DoJ: What particular aspects interest you ?
DA: The 'culture' of the underground. It is a vastly changing 
region. One day a so-called wizard can be declared lame by 
hundreds of people and thats that. There isnt the usual 
cover-up of things here on the scene. The entire style is 
different than the real world. Its quite intersting.

DoJ: What would you attribute to your main decision to want 
to learn ? 
DA: Probably all the clueless and not-so-clueless people out 
there who are bored and want to push their computing power 
beyond 'normal' boundries. Anyone can master these kind of 
things...so why shouldnt you try it once, at least?

DoJ: Have you ever been caught ? or gotten close ?
DA: Yes. My ISP's have gotten mad and threatened me and 
cancelled my service a bunch. I try not to do anything that 
will land me in jail. Do I play it safe? Yes.

DoJ: Do you follow any set of morals or is the chase of 
knowledge more important ?
DA: I dont hack politically, racially, for pr0n, power, or 
anything like that. I do it to test myself. It truly is the 
best game there is...

DoJ: On a topical subject, what is your opinion of the 
current trend to attack unfavourable countries ?
DA: I think that is really the wrong thing to do. Tampering 
with or "destroying" the computers of unfavorable countries 
is not going to do any good. The people need to be changed, 
not the machines.

DoJ: Whats the one thing you want the world to know about you ?
DA: I hate printers.

DoJ: Where and how can you be contacted ?
DA: E-Mail is the only sure way to reach me. I'm currently 
using apparitione@gmx.de. If I change my address and you get 
too stressed out then go  and take a look at my page 
[ http://members.xoom.com/damatrix/ ] and click "contact". 
That will always have an address that I will be receiving at.

DoJ: Perhaps a quote to finish off with ?
DA: 'Trust No One'

Fill-in the Blanks;

          Choice of Women: 'Dumb Blondes'
          OS: FreeBSD on a 486
          Food: Chips, Fries, Pepsi, and OJ [ not mixed ]
          Music: Pop/Techno...Beck, Beastie Boys, etc
          Films: Armageddon, the James Bond films...
          Sites: hackernews.com, cnn.com, yahoo.com

DoJ: Anything else ? A comment to someone you don't like 
perhaps...
DA: I think that everyone needs to have more fun. People 
are too stressed out.

DoJ: Thanks Digital
DA: No problem... just get your hand off my thigh... !