::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Feb/99
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 2 - File 10:::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Conclusion:

 Well there you all are for another issue. Hope it keep you as
enthralled as previously. We try to keep up the usual degree of
crap each issue. We are sure you lot have complaints so send
them to discordia@Rue-the-Day.net and we'll probably ignore you.

 We have some complaints of our own. We started this Zine out
of boredom and it seems that no-one is interested. Sure, we get
loads of hits on the site. Loads of people download the Zine
but apart from abuse. Rarely do we get a serious contributor.
We need, I repeat WE NEED, submissions of stories, how-to's, art,
poems, quotes, technical FAQ's, hacking texts, underground exploits
and anything else you have lying around. Unlike the swanky print
publications that you actually have to PAY for... the DoJ is free
and we need your help to keep it up.  Cronus and Rue do not intend
to write anything for the next issue. We want your help in filling
the space. 

 Much thanks go out to Kleptic and Digital Avatar for both their
continued support. Thank You Guys. Ethercat has always been willing
to help and much thanks go out to her for putting up with all our
wild ideas... rOTTEN was the Original ASCII artist and for this 
issue we decided we needed a change. The new art is done by an
anonymous author, but thanks go out to carsten_bund@mediacube.de.
Also we recently got our first contribution of Digital Art to the
Gallery section of the site, thanks go out to Michael Perryman.

 Kleptic has his now regular column 'Ask Dr. Klep' and we thought
the name would be enough to inspire questions but obviously not.
Kleptic, Klep to his friends, is a very well rounded underground
figure and is willing to answer all your questions, even the ones
your parents would never answer growing up. So mail him your deep
underground questions and he'll sort you with an answer...

 So till next time Folks. Same Discordant Time, Same Discordant
Channel. 

 'Be Safe, don't get caught with your pants down...'
  - President William Clinton.

 The Editors.
