::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Feb/99
::: The Discordant Opposition Journal ::: Issue 2 - File 2 :::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:The Joys of Trashing:
 Rue-the-Day

Prologue:
	Rue-the-Day and Cronus, your intrepid DoJ editors,
caught momentarily in a van's headlights as they try to blend
into the shadows. The van is 'Group 4 Security' - private rent
a cop types. Rue-the-Day and Cronus are standing in the darkness
between two Microsoft buildings. The van's driver fails to
notice them and continues on his rounds. The two hackers breathe
a sigh of relief and start back towards the main road....

Onwards:
	That night had already been eventful. Earlier on we had
prowled around two other Microsoft 'campus' areas. The first
had been dull, lots of CCTV cameras and bins padlocked into
cages. The second area had been of greater interest. Myself
and Cronus had noticed a row of bins and a dumpster in a
parking lot beside a building. We peered into the dumpster
and found nothing much until I noticed that one of the bins
was labelled "Paper Waste Only".. Hehehe. We took the lid off
the bin and started going through the blue tinted bags for
documents of interest. This activity had us absorbed until
we heard a key turning in a door behind us. As we turned we
saw a guard trying to get the door of a nearby building open.
After some fumbling he succeeded and the appropriate thing to 
do seemed to be to run like bloody hell. I squeezed through the 
gap between the dumpster and bin and tried to run. The problem 
was, I wasn't moving - my backpack was stuck.
	Cronus was understandably concerned - he was in the path
of the rapidly approaching (pissed off looking) security guard. 
He punched my backpack through the gap and we both sprinted off 
carrying bags of Microsoft documents with us. We ran out into 
traffic, over a large mound of dirt and across a patch of 
wasteland before finally stopping. At the bottom of this file
are some interesting extracts from our find...

Advice:
	Some general things to keep in mind. Try your best to be
 selective when trashing, discard unnecessary stuff - it'll just
 weigh you down. Choosing to trash either by day or night both
 have inherent advantages and disadvantages.
