
     Winstart

     -----------------------------------------------------------------
     This virus is named after the WINSTART.BAT file where the body of
     the virus is placed. That BAT file contains four text lines
     followed by binary data:

      @ECHO  OFF
      :s%r#
      COPY %0.BAT C:\Q.COM>NUL
      C:\Q
      [ binary data ]

     On execution of that file the virus copies itself (the BAT file)
     into the COM dropper, and executes it. That dropper is placed at
     the root directory of C: drive with the name Q.COM. Being
     executed it installs itself into the High Memory Area, hooks INT
     2Fh, and creates the WINSTART.BAT files on floppy drives, and
     copies the virus body into newly created BAT file.

     Execution of BAT-file

     The installation routine of WINSTART virus contains the common
     ideas with the first memory resident BAT virus named BATMAN. As
     well as BATMAN the WINSTART virus being executed receives control
     as the batch file. It transforms itself into COM format by the
     commands are listed in its text part:

      command                     action
      -------                     ------
      @ECHO  OFF                  disable the echoing
      :s%r#                       this is the label, it is not executed in batch
      COPY %0.BAT C:\Q.COM>NUL    copy the host file to C:\Q.COM
      C:\Q                        run newly created C:\Q.COM

     The next line contains the binary data bytes that are begin with
     1Ah byte. That byte indicates "end-of-file", and as the result
     the binary code line will not be executed in batch mode.

     Execution of COM-file

     The Q.COM file is the copy of source BAT one, but while execution
     it receives the control as COM file. The text strings are
     executed by processor as "do-nothing" command such as:

      INC     AX          ;  '@'
      INC     BP          ;  'E'
      INC     BX          ;  'C'
      DEC     AX          ;  'H'
      DEC     DI          ;  'O'
      AND     [BX+SI],AH  ;  '  '

     That dummy code is terminated with "label" string (second line in
     BAT file). The processor executes that part of virus as the
     instructions:

      JNC    Install      ;  's%'
      JC     Install      ;  'r#'

     These instructions pass the control to binary part of the virus,
     and that part installs the memory resident portion of WINSTART.

     Installation into the system memory

     First, the virus performs "Are you here?" call INT 2Fh with
     AX=B700h. The memory resident portion of the virus returns FFh
     value in AL register. That call is absolutely the same as
     performed by DOS utility APPEND on installation, and they may
     confuse each other. It shows the best way to protect oneself
     against that virus - it is necessary to install APPEND utility
     only.

     If there is no WINSTART virus copy in the system memory the virus
     allocates the block of High Memory Area (HMA) with INT 2Fh
     function AX=4A02h. The request is for 173 bytes only, and such
     small hole is enough for virus to install itself into the memory.
     It copies the part (168 bytes) of its code into allocated block,
     and stores the INT 2Fh address into there (total 168+4=172
     bytes). The code is copied contains the virus INT 2Fh handler and
     infection routine only, the installation routine is not placed
     into the virus TSR part. The address of interrupt 2Fh vector is
     taken from the not documented DOS area (that address is new for
     me, I've never seen it before!). That address is used by DOS 6.0+
     when DOS internal INT 2Fh routines pass the control from one part
     of code to another one.

     Then the virus performs the last part of installation routine,
     that code is executed ever if there is no HMA memory and the
     virus has not installed itself into the memory. It renames the
     C:\Q.COM file with the name C:\WINSTART.BAT, and then deletes the
     C:\Q.COM file. There is the reason for such deleting - if
     WINSTART.BAT file already exist, the rename command fails, and
     Q.COM file is not deleted while renaming. After deleting the
     virus sets the attributes of C:\WINSTART.BAT to "read-only", and
     terminates itself with INT 20h call.

     The result of installation routine is follow: the virus hooks INT
     2Fh, keeps its INT 2Fh handler in HMA block, and leaves
     C:\WINSTART.BAT file with the copy of the virus.

     INT 2Fh Handler

     The virus intercepts two INT 2Fh functions. The first one is "Are
     you here?" call (or APPEND installation check) AX=B700h, in that
     case the virus immediately returns FFh value in AL register.

     The second call is internal Installation Check AX=AE00h function
     of COMMAND.COM processor. The last call is performed on execution
     of new COMMAND.COM copy (on execution of any DOS application from
     some file shell such as XTREE or NortonCommander for example). In
     that case the virus passes the control to infection routine.

     The infection routine drops the copy of the virus on the current
     drive under two conditions only:

       1. the current drive is A: or B:
       2. it has 50% or less of free disk space (i.e. there are some
          files that occupy 50% or more of that disk, and new file may
          be "hidden" between other file names while DIR command)

     In that case the virus hooks INT 24h to prevent the DOS error
     message while writing to write-protected disks, creates new
     WINSTART.BAT file on the current (A: or B:) drive, and copies the
     C:\WINSTART.BAT into there. While copying the virus uses INT 18h
     address in Interrupt Table (addresses 0000:0060-0063) as
     read-write buffer. That interrupt is not used during the DOS
     session on any IBM-PC machine (that trick allows the virus to
     save four bytes of memory is occupied!), but may have the
     troubles on not IBM-PC clones.

     After copying the virus sets for destination file the file date
     and time stamp the same as source file has, closes the files and
     returns the control to original INT 2Fh address. The infection
     has been done.
