
                                 Help File
                              ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                                    for

                             ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                             ³  2BACKUP.BAT  ³
                             ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

                     Saturday 10 June, 1995 - 12:08 PM

     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³Purpose³
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

     2BACKUP.BAT is a simple file backup program. It is intended to be
     used by  anyone  who  is -not- interested  in  backing  up  their
     important files.

     2BACKUP.BAT will  backup -all- the modified files -from- the hard
     drive of your choice -to- floppy drive diskettes.

     Or... if  you want, by designating a Omega ZIP drive or a Syquest
     removable drive  as the  destination drive,  back  up  -to-  that
     drive.

     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³Strengths³
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

     2BACKUP.BAT puts  a duplicate of files on the hard drive into the
     same subdirectory  as it  existed on  the hard  drive. The highly
     sophisticated  MS-DOS  and Windows  backup programs puts  all the
     files  you  backup  into  one  inscrutable  read-only file on the
     floppy  diskette.  You  can't  tell  what  you backed  up without
     checking your "Catalog."

     2BACKUP.BAT requires  only a tiny amount of configuration. It can
     be used successfully by the newest of new PC users.

     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³Limitations³
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

     2BACKUP.BAT can not backup a file larger than the capacity of the
     drive that you are using as the destination drive. 2BACKUP.BAT is
     designed to -commonly- use  an empty floppy diskette. With normal
     3«" diskettes, this is about 1.45 megabytes (MB).

     There is  no way  I know of to sense a multi-megabyte file with a
     MS-DOS batch file. So... if 2BACKUP.BAT runs across a database or
     spreadsheet file that is greater than 1.45 megabytes, it will try
     to back  it up  to a  1.45 megabyte floppy; repeatedly asking you
     for another  floppy to  try again. After you observe that you are
     trying repeatedly to back up the same file, I would hope that you
     would press {Ctrl}+C and abort 2BACKUP.BAT.

     If however...  you are  backing up  to a  Omega 100  megabyte Zip
     drive, then 100 megabytes is the limit of the file size.

     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³Reasons I made 2BACKUP.BAT³
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

     2BACKUP.BAT was  born out  of necessity.  'Cause despite the fact
     that our  company has  networks, gigabyte tape backups, and other
     impedimenta,  nobody,   but  nobody   backs  up   their  critical
     spreadsheets, databases, letters, and notes. We still need floppy
     diskette type  backup. Besides we still have bunches of computers
     that are stand-alones.

     So what if you have a full tape backup of your 420 MB hard drive?
     What good  does that  backup do when your system crashes? The big
     problem is  not the  backup, Oh  no... the big problem is getting
     some nerdy  guy in there to find the last set of files you worked
     on and  that you  want ten  minutes ago.  And...  you  want  that
     seventy-five dollar  an hour  ($75./hour) guy to find those files
     WHEN YOU  CAN'T REMEMBER  THEIR NAMES OR WHAT DIRECTORY THEY WERE
     IN!!!

     So... I  made this primitive non "bulletproof" batch file to give
     to anybody and everybody... yes even you who may not believe that
     2BACKUP.BAT should be nominated for a Nobel prize in computing.

     This program  is dedicated  to all  the  computer  users  of  the
     business world who hate computers but have to use them.

     My friend  David summed  it up very well when he said: "Computers
     make simple work hard, and hard work impossible."

     I was  upset with  him  when  he  said  that  as  I  really  love
     computers, software,  modems, scanners,  programming and all this
     weird stuff.  But David  was right  and right  on. You  see... he
     works about eighty (80) hours a week as a Vice President of a two
     thousand (2,000)  employee healthcare corporation. He works hard,
     is honest,  and gets  a lot  done. Hell... he has no time to play
     with tricky  computers and  all the errors they throw up when you
     hit the  wrong key.... David is right, computers are hard to use;
     let no one convince you otherwise.

     But what  is harder  than using a computer is trying to make sure
     that the  stuff you  have laboriously  and lovingly  put on  that
     temperamental beast  is safe.  Need a  something kind  of  backup
     program that is simple to use, safe, and "bulletproof." Love that
     work "bulletproof."  Used to think I made programs that were made
     of Kevlar... but no more...

     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³The Dare....   ³
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

     If you  try 2BACKUP.BAT  and think you have a better program that
     does this  simple task,  please let  me  have  it.  If  it  is  a
     commercial product give me the name and version number. Don't get
     smart-alecky with  me and  tell me that you use the Central Point
     Backup program  that comes  with MS-DOS  6.0 or its' Windows 3.11
     version; nobody  here (but  me) can  use it.  And... if  I'm in a
     hurry, I can't use it either!!!

     So send me your best backup program.... Yeah... make my day....

     Now to explain how to back up them files.....

     First:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     You should  be using MS-DOS 6.0 or newer. When 2BACKUP.BAT starts
     up it  shows you  the date,  time and what MS-DOS version you are
     running. So  if your  MS-DOS version is less than 6.0, don't call
     me... upgrade.

     Second:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     Put the one (1) batch file:

          1.   2BACKUP.BAT

     in the "Root" directory of the hard drive you wish to backup.

     For most  individuals the  "Root"  directory  is  the  one  which
     contains the  files AUTOEXEC.BAT  and CONFIG.SYS  and is  usually
     "C:\." For those of you with more than one hard drive, put a copy
     of 2BACKUP.BAT  into -each- root directory of the drives you wish
     to back up.

     Third:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     2BACKUP.BAT uses two (2) MS-DOS executable files:

          1.   XCOPY.EXE
          2.   ATTRIB.EXE

     to do all its work.

     If these  two files  are not in your PATH, 2BACKUP.BAT will fail.
     If you  don't know  anything  about  "PATH"  you  can  still  try
     2BACKUP.BAT, but  if you get the MS-DOS error "file not found" or
     something like  that; you  will need  to add  a PATH statement to
     your AUTOEXEC.BAT.  Again, don't  call me,  pull out  your MS-DOS
     manual or call one of your nerdy friends to help you.

     Fourth:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     2BACKUP.BAT works  by backing up all the files which are "new" or
     "modified" on  your hard drive. When you install programs on your
     hard drive,  all those  files are  "new." When  you edit an -old-
     file like  a word processor document or a spreadsheet, it becomes
     "modified." DOS  adds an  "a" or "archive attribute" to all "new"
     and all "modified" files.

     Fifth:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     The first thing we do is.....

     Run 2BACKUP.BAT while in MS-DOS to REMOVE all those file "archive
     attributes." If  you try to run 2BACKUP.BAT -the first time- from
     Windows 3.11,  you will  get an  error message  and find that you
     can't.

     Sixth:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     Now rerun 2BACKUP.BAT from either MS-DOS or Windows 3.11.

     If the  floppy drive  that you  will be  backing up to is your A:
     Drive, you don't need to do anything else but run 2BACKUP.BAT. If
     you are  backing up  to the  B: Drive,  you  will  have  to  tell
     2BACKUP.BAT that  by adding  the one  (1) character  "B"  to  the
     command line when you run 2BACKUP.BAT.

     ie:

     2BACKUP B

     Seventh:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     Windows 3.11  opens a  bunch of  files and  makes them "modified"
     when it starts up.

     2BACKUP.BAT works inside of Windows 3.11.

     I  even  included  a  couple  of  icon  files  you  can  use  for
     2BACKUP.BAT for  Windows. But...  since Windows  3.11  opens  and
     makes "modified"  all the  printer driver  files and  some of the
     *.GRP files,  2BACKUP.BAT will back up about 600K of Windows 3.11
     files before  it gets  around to  backing up  the ones you really
     want.

     If you're  like me  and leave your computer on all the time, it's
     only a  small problem. If you shut down every night, back up from
     MS-DOS before you shut off the computer.

     Eighth:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     2BACKUP.BAT backs  up -all-  the modified  files from  your  hard
     drive.... ALL  OF THEM.  And...  it  puts  them  in  the  correct
     directory that they existed in on your hard drive.

     2BACKUP.BAT will  allow you to back up many megabytes of files as
     it lets  you know  when a  diskette is full and prompts you for a
     fresh, empty one. You can use as many diskettes as you need.

     If you are backing up the same files over and over again:

     2BACKUP.BAT will OVERWRITE the old file with the new ones. So use
     the same diskettes over and over again.... Neat eh?

     Ninth:
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     Use good,  formatted empty  diskettes. If you use junky diskettes
     inside of  Windows 3.11,  you will get some unpleasant surprises;
     your floppy  drive will  cease to  be recognized,  you  will  get
     "sharing violations" you will have to warm or cold reboot.

     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³LearnWare³
     ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

     You are  free to  use all  of the  programs in  this file set for
     business or  pleasure... these  programs are  Copyrighted (c)  as
     LearnWare(c). The  only thing  you can't do is say you programmed
     any of  this stuff  yourself -or-  charge for  the use  of  these
     programs.

     One or  two of  you may be inclined to try to pass this stuff off
     as your  own intellectual property. Yep... you will try. You guys
     with your  crafty ways  will think  it's a piece of cake to erase
     the  text  graphics  and  my  name.  Yep...  then  put  your  own
     identification in there and peddle 2BACKUP.BAT.

     Don't do it.

     There  are  encrypted  markers  and  code  in  2BACKUP.BAT  which
     identifies the  ownership of  this program.  This is very unusual
     and pretty  sneaky since  this is  seemingly just  an ASCII batch
     file.

     If you  think this  is an  empty boast...  bet me  some reeeallly
     substantial amount of cash. When I have that cash in hand, I will
     send you a QuickBASIC program that will reveal the encryption. If
     you can  identify the  encryption code,  send me  a copy  of  the
     decrypted file, I'd like to see that too.

     Have fun...

     John De Palma on CompuServe 76076,571.
