                         Final Notes
                             By
                         Horny Toad


Well, I hope that this edition has helped you out with virus
writing techniques.  The concepts are going to become more
difficult in the next couple editions, so try to remember
the basics.  In the next editions, we will be covering EXE
and resident infectors.  Once you have mastered resident
virii, then you can consider youself an advanced virus
writer.  At the advanced stage, we will be looking a honing
your skills in anti-AV techniques, boot sector infectors,
and such topics as code polymorphism.

We also plan to include more hacking articles in the future
issues.  Many of the techniques that have worked in the past
are now obsolete.  With the increasing sophistication of
firewalls and data encryption, hacking has become much more
difficult.  Look for reviews of hacking tools and interviews
with hackers as they break through the defenses of
unsuspecting prey.

As always, I am accepting articles to be published in future
editions of the Codebreakers.  If you have something to say
or a technique that you would like to teach, by all means
send it to me.  As long as it is not too outrageous I will
include it in the mag. Also, if there is any beginners that
would like to share their experiences with virus writing, I
would really like to share them and put them in the mag.

We are also looking for experienced hackers and virus
writers to join the Codebreakers.  We are a small group of
misfits trying our best to promote the art of virus writing
and hacking.  Our primary goal is the education of the
masses and the discovery of new techniques, while having a
damn good time.  If you think you have what it takes to
become one of us, visit our site at codebreakers.simplenet.com.
Be prepared for the infamous test!  Seriously, if you are a
code wizard and want to join, get in touch with us.  If you
are a newcomer to the fantastic world of virus writing and
think that you have something to offer us, by all means, get
in touch with us.

We are happy to hear from all.

