   [vkyjak.gif]

                            The Ultimate Solution
                        The world smalest virus ever.



   Editorial.
       So dudes here is another kick the ass contribution to our zine.
       Smalest virus in sa world. Enjoy it and don't get infected. So pay
       attention on your A: drive. Maybe, you get the feeling the
       contribution is unreal, but remember this is no AF edition....

   So enjoy the article by Vyvojar



                          Kyjacisko alias Budzogan



   Halloa.
       The smallest virus ever comes. From Slovakia, of course. From
       Vyvojar, of course. It's so small it can spread oraly. Just tell
       your friend 8B DE CD 26 and there it is - replicated. Now. The xtra
       quick intro to writing a virus. All you need is two instructions.
       First one is variable (polymorphism of fundamental level). So,
       whether you write 8B DE or B7 01 it doesn't matter that much and
       the conversation gets more colorful. All you need to get across is
       to put the right values into right register (the one and only BX).
       So and one half is done. Press any key to continue... Second
       instruction is, unfortunatelly, not polymorphic, but it works. It
       goes CD 26 and simply tells the machine to spread the virus. Virus
       is now replicated - hopefuly. Extra bonus: it's stealth (a little
       bit). And heuristics doesn't stand a chance. Possibly it infects
       archives as well (ZIP, ARJ, RAR etc.) ...



   What history tells us.
       The first attempts to write a short virus date far back. Most of
       them are overwritting non-TSR tings. There has been a conference
       (virus-l) on intnet and they concluded the smallest ever was some
       Trivial.22 chap (gosh, 500% bigger than Kyjacisko).
       Note for non-Slovak residents: if you don't know what Kyjacisko
       (Budzogan respectively) means, consult the Slovak embassy near you.
       If you don't know who Vyvojar is, you are not supposed to read this
       mag anyway.



   The serious part.
       Requirements: Works exclusively with MS-DOS, tested with 5.0+ (no
       win business, folks). Requires 4b free RAM (except for PSP and
       tings like that). First instruction sets BX register to 100h. You
       can achieve tis in several different ways. EG mov bx,si (A
       alternative), mov bh,01 (alt B) etc etc. Second instruction runs
       int 26h. Now, we need several tings for tis interrupt. Following
       registers should be set like dis:

   AL contains disk drive number.
       ES:BX buffer to be written down.
       CX number of sectors to be written.
       DX logical sector number. Dis is all for today.

   And now, let's see how did Microsoft set the registers for us.
   AL = 0 (mostly) ........................... documented
   BX = AX = 0 (we set to 100h, remember?) ... undocumented
   CX = FFh .................................. undocumented
   DX = ES = PSP segment = base address ...... partially documented
   it should be all safe and clear now.
   So the virus writes itself (or in fact 255 sectors) somewhere to the
   disk A:, where "somewhere" is determined by the PSP value. If a
   starting sector number of .COM or .EXE file is identical with DX value,
   such file gets infected. Often people start panicking like "how will it
   all end, what a bunch of data will be lost or it isn't a 4B virus when
   it writes 255 sectors etc etc". The answer, my friend is written in the
   empirical facts of other viruses as well as in the definition of a
   virus itself.



   OK I'm finished and so is the virus. Code you can get from any good BBS
       or by fax or by a telephone call from a friend. It is also included
       in the supplement to tis file.
       The motto of the day.

   "As Windows^TM get longer, good things get shorter."

   Vyvojar



                                        Donwload here    [1][deaddisk.gif]
                                      .

Références

   1. dl/kyjak.zip
