- [Duke's Virus Labs #5] - [Page 25] -

                         Interview with Cicatrix
                            (c) by Duke/SMF
                                20.02.99


Duke     : When you was acquainted with the computer for the first time?
Cicatrix : My first experience must have been around 1983 when I saw some
           10-12 year old kid do magic with a computer keyboard. I decided
           that what a 10-12 year old kid could do I could better so
           I bought my first computer (Acorn Electron with a cassette player
           for storage) and started fooling around programming simple
           stuff in BASIC.

Duke     : When you was interested in viruses and came to the VX scene?
Cicatrix : My first virus encounter must have been the late '80's. I'd often
           heard about this magical thing called a computer virus but I had
           never encountered one. Having moved to an IBM-compatible computer
           (8088) I was using quite a lot of pirated software and I used
           McAfee as a virus scanner. Then one day when I decided to scan
           a diskette which I did not expect to have a virus (it came
           from a reputable source) I found the Cascade virus. I used this
           virus to get on a BBS with viruses and started downloading after
           I got access. With those viruses I got access to other VX BBS's
           etc.etc.

Duke     : You are known as the largest collector of viruses. How long ago
           do you engaded in it?
Cicatrix : I started about seven, eight years ago and I have been doing it
           ever since. BTW, I do not consider myself the largest collector
           of viruses in numbers. There are some people that have larger
           collection. But I think I have one of the better organized
           collections if you look at the stuff surrounding the computer
           viruses.

Duke     : How many viruses are in your collection now?
Cicatrix : Last count was about 17000+ identified but I get new viruses
           almost every day so by the time you read this it should 18000+.
           Also I have a lot of viruses not identified by AV yet.

Duke     : Which programs (AV/util) do you use for work with the your
           collection?
Cicatrix : For a scanner I use F-Prot and AVP32, for sorting I use VS2000.
           I'm looking around for other utilities and I might try Viruskeeper
           or AVID 95.

Duke     : You should deal with hundreds viruses every day. Did you even
           tried to write your own viruses?
Cicatrix : No never. I don't think I have the technical know-how to write
           a virus that won't be too lame. I could "create" many viruses
           using a virus creation tool but what would be the point, not
           really creative.

Duke     : You hobby is writing VDAT. How many time it takes away at a day ?
Cicatrix : Throughout the week I use about two hours a day for VDAT and other
           virus related stuff. I spend a lot of time surfing the web looking
           for new material and web sites. In the weekend it can go up to four
           to five hours a day depending on what else I have to do.

Duke     : What is your most favourite virus? Virmaker? A magazine? Group?
Cicatrix : I have no favorites, all are part of my collection. There are some
           things I enjoy collecting more than others, for example I like
           getting stuff that is hard to get or stuff I did not even know
           existed (new zines or creation kits). Also I like people that are
           original, people that think of something new. A good example would
           be VicodinES, he had great and original ideas when he was still
           part of the scene.

Duke     : Who are you in the real life?
Cicatrix : Aaah, let's not give away too much although many in the scene know
           quite a lot about me. Even in "normal" life I'm not one to want
           attention so I like the "fly on the wall" idea. Let's say I'm
           between 30 and 40, married, West European and not proud of my
           nationality. I have a regular job and I like fast cars.

Duke     : What is your purpose on the VX scene?
Cicatrix : I have no specific purpose really. I would like to continue my
           VDAT efforts as long as I enjoy it and the bigger the collection
           the better.

Duke     : Any greets?
Cicatrix : Anyone I have been touch with lately. Many have helped with
           the collection and VDAT. I hope this will continue.
           Specifically greets to the members of VTC, joining them was
           a good decision.

Duke     : What do you want to tell to the DVL readers?
Cicatrix : Get Internet access if you can, it is the best way to learn
           about the world in general and about computer viruses specifically.
           If you haven't done so already get VDAT and start reading. I make
           it and I still enjoy reading it.

Duke     : How much time you compiling your VDAT (since 1.7)? :))
Cicatrix : If you mean to ask when the next VDAT will be released, it is
           planned for April 1st 1999. I have quite a lot of new information
           since 1.7 especially because of a lot of help from Russia :-)
           I don't know how big it will be but it will be a lot bigger than
           the last VDAT.

Duke     : Thanks for interview, Cicatrix !
